The Project Gutenberg EBook of How to Tell Fortunes, by Aaron A. Warford

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: How to Tell Fortunes
       Containing Napoleon's Oraculum and the Key to Work It;
       also Tells Fortunes by Cards, Lucky and Unlucky Days, Signs
       and Omens.

Author: Aaron A. Warford

Release Date: August 7, 2016 [EBook #52741]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOW TO TELL FORTUNES ***




Produced by Craig Kirkwood, Demian Katz and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Images
courtesy of the Digital Library@Villanova University
(http://digital.library.villanova.edu/))






Transcriber’s Notes:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *




HOW TO TELL FORTUNES


  CONTAINING Napoleon’s Oraculum, and the Key to Work It

  ALSO Tells Fortunes by Cards, LUCKY AND UNLUCKY DAYS, SIGNS AND OMENS.

       *       *       *       *       *

  COPYRIGHT, 1902, BY
  FRANK TOUSEY, PUBLISHER
  168 West 23d St., New York City




HOW TO TELL FORTUNES BY CARDS.


In telling Fortunes by Cards--as in all games in which they are
employed--the Ace ranks highest in value. Then comes the King, followed
by the Queen, Knave, Ten, Nine, Eight, and Seven; these being generally
the only cards used.

The order, and comparative value of the different suits, is as
follows:--First on the list stand “Clubs,” as they mostly portend
happiness; and--no matter how numerous, or how accompanied--are rarely
or never of bad augury. Next come “Hearts,” which usually signify joy,
liberality, or good temper; “Diamonds,” on the contrary, denote delay,
quarrels, and annoyance; and “Spades”--the worst suit of all--grief,
sickness, and loss of money.

We are of course speaking generally, as, in many cases, the position
of cards entirely changes their signification; their individual and
relative meaning being often widely different. Thus, for example, the
King of Hearts, the Nine of Hearts, and the Nine of Clubs, respectively
signify, a liberal man, joy, and success in love, but change their
position, by placing the King _between_ the two nines, and you would
read that a man, then rich and happy, would be ere long consigned to a
prison!


SIGNIFICATION OF THE CARDS.

The individual meaning attached to the thirty-two cards employed is as
follows:--


THE EIGHT CLUBS.

_Ace of Clubs._--Signifies joy, money, or good news; if reversed, the
joy will be of brief duration.

_King of Clubs._--A frank, liberal man, fond of serving his friends; if
reversed, he will meet with a disappointment.

_Queen of Clubs._--An affectionate woman, but quick-tempered and
touchy; if reversed, jealous and malicious.

_Knave of Clubs._--A clever and enterprising young man; reversed, a
harmless flirt and flatterer.

_Ten of Clubs._--Fortune, success, or grandeur; reversed, want of
success in some small matter.

_Nine of Clubs._--Unexpected gain, or a legacy; reversed, some trifling
present.

_Eight of Clubs._--A dark person’s affections, which, if returned,
will be the cause of great prosperity; reversed, those of a fool, and
attendant unhappiness, if reciprocated.

_Seven of Clubs._--A small sum of money, or unexpectedly recovered
debt; reversed, a yet smaller amount.


THE EIGHT HEARTS.

_Ace of Hearts._--A love-letter, or some pleasant news; reversed, a
friend’s visit.

_King of Hearts._--A fair, liberal man; reversed, will meet with
disappointment.

_Queen of Hearts._--A mild, amiable woman; reversed, has been crossed
in love.

_Knave of Hearts._--A gay young bachelor, who dreams only of pleasure;
reversed, a discontented military man.

_Ten of Hearts._--Happiness, triumph; if reversed, some slight anxiety.

_Nine of Hearts._--Joy, satisfaction, success; reversed, a passing
chagrin.

_Eight of Hearts._--A fair person’s affections; reversed, indifference
on his or her part.

_Seven of Hearts._--Pleasant thoughts, tranquillity; reversed, ennui,
weariness.


THE EIGHT DIAMONDS.

_Ace of Diamonds._--A letter, soon to be received; and, if the card be
reversed, containing bad news.

_King of Diamonds._--A fair man--generally in the army--but both
cunning and dangerous; if reversed, a threatened danger, caused by
machinations on his part.

_Queen of Diamonds._--An ill-bred, scandal-loving woman; if reversed,
she is to be greatly feared.

_Knave of Diamonds._--A tale-bearing servant, or unfaithful friend; if
reversed, will be the cause of mischief.

_Ten of Diamonds._--Journey, or change of residence; if reversed, it
will not prove fortunate.

_Nine of Diamonds._--Annoyance, delay; if reversed, either a family or
a love quarrel.

_Eight of Diamonds._--Love-making; if reversed, unsuccessful.

_Seven of Diamonds._--Satire, mockery; reversed, a foolish scandal.

N. B.--In order to know whether the Ace, Ten, Nine, Eight and Seven
of Diamonds are reversed, it is better to make a small pencil-mark on
each, to show which is the top of the card.


THE EIGHT SPADES.

_Ace of Spades._--Pleasure; reversed, grief, bad news.

_King of Spades._--The envious man, an enemy, or a dishonest lawyer,
who is to be feared; reversed, impotent malice.

_Queen of Spades._--A widow; reversed, a dangerous and malicious woman.

_Knave of Spades._--A dark, ill-bred young man; reversed, he is
plotting some mischief.

_Ten of Spades._--Tears, a prison; reversed, brief affliction.

_Nine of Spades._--Tidings of a death; reversed, it will be some near
relative.

_Eight of Spades._--Approaching illness; reversed, a marriage broken
off, or offer refused.

_Seven of Spades._--Slight annoyances; reversed, a foolish intrigue.

The Court cards of Hearts and Diamonds usually represent persons of
fair complexion; Clubs and Spades, the opposite.


SIGNIFICATION OF DIFFERENT CARDS OF THE SAME DENOMINATION.

_Four Aces_, coming together, or following each other, announce danger,
failure in business, and sometimes imprisonment. If one or more of them
be reversed, the danger will be lessened, but that is all.

_Three Aces_, coming in the same manner.--Good tidings; if reversed,
folly.

_Two Aces._--A plot; if reversed, will not succeed.

_Four Kings._--Rewards, dignities, honors; reversed, they will be less,
but sooner received.

_Three Kings._--A consultation on important business, the result
of which will be highly satisfactory; if reversed, success will be
doubtful.

_Two Kings._--A partnership in business; if reversed, a dissolution of
the same. Sometimes this only denotes friendly projects.

_Four Queens._--Company, society; one or more reversed, denotes that
the entertainment will not go off well.

_Three Queens._--Friendly calls; reversed, chattering and scandal or
deceit.

_Two Queens._--A meeting between friends; reversed, poverty, troubles,
in which one will involve the other.

_Four Knaves._--A noisy party--mostly young people; reversed, a
drinking bout.

_Three Knaves._--False friends; reversed, a quarrel with some low
person.

_Two Knaves._--Evil intentions; reversed, danger.

_Four tens._--Great success in projected enterprises; reversed, the
success will not be so brilliant, but still it will be sure.

_Three tens._--Improper conduct; reversed, failure.

_Two tens._--Change of trade or profession; reversed, denotes that the
prospect is only a distant one.

_Four nines._--A great surprise; reversed, a public dinner.

_Three nines._--Joy, fortune, health; reversed, wealth lost by
imprudence.

_Two nines._--A little gain; reversed, trifling losses at cards.

_Four eights._--A short journey; reversed, the return of a friend or
relative.

_Three eights._--Thoughts of marriage; reversed, folly, flirtation.

_Two eights._--A brief love-dream; reversed, small pleasures and
trifling pains.

_Four Sevens._--Intrigues among servants or low people, threats,
snares, and disputes; reversed, that their malice will be impotent to
harm, and that the punishment will fall on themselves.

_Three sevens._--Sickness, premature old age; reversed, slight and
brief indisposition.

_Two sevens._--Levity; reversed, regret.

Any picture-card between two others of equal value--as two tens, two
Aces, etc.--denotes that the person represented by that card runs the
risk of a prison.

It requires no great efforts to commit these significations to memory,
but it must be remembered that they are but what the alphabet is to
the printed book: a little attention and practice, however, will soon
enable the learner to form these mystic letters into words, and words
into phrases; in other language, to assemble these cards together, and
read the events, past and to come, their pictured faces pretend to
reveal.

There are several ways of doing this; but we will give them all, one
after another, so as to afford our readers an ample choice of methods
of prying into futurity.


DEALING THE CARDS BY THREES.

Take the pack of thirty-two selected cards (viz., the Ace, King, Queen,
Knave, Ten, Nine, Eight, and Seven of each suit), having before fixed
upon the one you intend to represent yourself, supposing always you
are making the essay on your own behalf. If not, it must represent
the person for whom you are acting. In doing this, it is necessary to
remember that the card chosen should be according to the complexion
of the chooser, King or Queen of Diamonds for a very fair person,
ditto of Hearts for one rather darker, Clubs for one darker still, and
Spades only for one very dark indeed. The card chosen also loses its
signification, and simply becomes the representative of a dark or fair
man, or woman, as the case may be.

This point having been settled, shuffle the cards, and either cut
them or have them cut for you (according to whether you are acting
for yourself or another person), taking care to use the _left_ hand.
That done, turn them up by _threes_, and every time you find in these
triplets _two of the same suit_, such as two Hearts, two Clubs, etc.,
withdraw the highest card and place it on the table before you. If the
triplet should chance to be all of the same suit, the _highest_ card
is still to be the only one withdrawn; but should it consist of three
of the _same value_ but _different suits_, such as three Kings, etc.,
they are to be all appropriated. We will suppose that, after having
turned up the cards three by three, you have been able to withdraw
six, leaving twenty-six, which you shuffle and cut, and again turn up
by threes, acting precisely as you did before, until you have obtained
either _thirteen_, _fifteen_, or _seventeen_ cards. Recollect that
the number must always be uneven, and that the card representing the
person for whom the essay is made must make one of it. Even if the
requisite thirteen, fifteen, or seventeen have been obtained, and this
one has not made its appearance, the operation must be recommenced.
Let us suppose the person whose fortune is being read to be a lady,
represented by the Queen of Hearts, and that fifteen cards have been
obtained and laid out--in the form of a half circle--in the order they
were drawn, viz., the Seven of Clubs, the Ten of Diamonds, the Seven of
Hearts, the Knave of Clubs, the King of Diamonds, the Nine of Diamonds,
the Ten of Hearts, the Queen of Spades, the Eight of Hearts, the Knave
of Diamonds, the Queen of Hearts, the Nine of Clubs, the Seven of
Spades, the Ace of Clubs, the Eight of Spades. Having considered your
cards, you will find among them two Queens, two Knaves, two tens, three
sevens, two eights, and two nines; you are, therefore, able to announce:

“The two Queens before me signify the reunion of friends; the two
Knaves, that there is mischief being made between them. These two tens
denote a change of profession, which, from one of them being between
two sevens, I see will not be effected without some difficulty; the
cause of which, according to these _three_ sevens, will be illness.
However, these two nines promise some small gain, resulting--so say
these two eights--from a love affair.”

You now begin to count _seven cards, from right to left_, beginning
with the Queen of Hearts, who represents the lady you are acting for.
The seventh being the King of Diamonds, you may say:

“You often think of a fair man in uniform.”

The next seventh card (counting the King of Diamonds as _one_) proves
to be the Ace of Clubs; you add:

“You will receive from him some very joyful tidings; he, besides,
intends making you a present.”

Count the Ace of Clubs as “one,” and proceeding to the next seventh
card, the Queen of Spades, you resume:

“A widow is endeavoring to injure you on this very account; and” (the
seventh card, counting the Queen as one, being the Ten of Diamonds)
“the annoyance she gives you will oblige you to either take a journey
or change your residence; but” (this Ten of Diamonds being imprisoned
between two sevens) “your journey or removal will meet with some
obstacle.”

On proceeding to count as before, calling the Ten of Diamonds one, you
will find the seventh card proves to be the Queen of Hearts herself,
the person for whom you are acting, and may therefore safely conclude
by saying:

“But this you will overcome of yourself, without needing any one’s aid
or assistance.”

Now take the two cards at either extremity of the half circle, which
are, respectively, the Eight of Spades and the Seven of Clubs, unite
them, and continue:--

“A sickness, which will lead to your receiving a small sum of money.”

Repeat the same maneuver, which brings together the Ace of Clubs and
the Ten of Diamonds:--

“Good news, which will make you decide on taking a journey, destined to
prove a very happy one, and which will occasion you to receive a sum of
money.”

The next cards united, being the Seven of Spades and the Seven of
Hearts, you say:--

“Tranquility and peace of mind, followed by slight anxiety, quickly
succeeded by love and happiness.”

Then come the Nine of Clubs and the Knave of Clubs, foretelling: “You
will certainly receive money through the exertions of a clever dark
young man--Queen of Hearts and King of Diamonds--which comes from a
fair man in uniform; this rencounter announces some great happiness
in store for you, and complete fulfillment of your wishes. Knave of
Diamonds and Nine of Diamonds--Although this happy result may be
delayed for a time, through some fair young man, not famed for his
delicacy--Eight of Hearts and Ten of Hearts--love, joy, and triumph.
The Queen of Spades, who remains alone, is the widow who is endeavoring
to injure you, and who finds herself abandoned by all her friends!”

Now gather up the cards you have been using, shuffle and cut them with
the left hand, and proceed to make them into three packs by dealing one
to the left, one in the middle, and one to the right; a fourth is laid
aside to form “a surprise.” Then continue to deal the cards to each of
the three packs in turn, until their number is exhausted, when it will
be found that the left-hand and middle packs contain each five cards,
whilst the one on the right hand consists of only four.

Now ask the person consulting you to select one of the three packs. We
will suppose this to be the middle one, and that the cards comprising
it are, the Knave of Diamonds, the King of Diamonds, the Seven of
Spades, the Queen of Spades, and the Seven of Clubs. These, by
recollecting our previous instructions regarding the individual and
relative signification of the cards, are easily interpreted, as follows:

“The Knave of Clubs--a fair young man, possessed of no delicacy
of feeling, who seeks to injure--the King of Diamonds--a fair man
in uniform--Seven of Spades--and will succeed in causing him some
annoyance--the Queen of Spades--at the instigation of a spiteful
woman--Seven of Clubs--but, by means of a small sum of money, matters
will be finally easily arranged.”

Next take up the left-hand pack, which is “for the house”--the former
one having been for the lady herself. Supposing it to consist of the
Queen of Hearts, the Knave of Clubs, the Eight of Hearts, the Nine of
Diamonds, and the Ace of Clubs, they would read thus:

“Queen of Hearts--the lady whose fortune is being told is, or soon will
be, in a house--Knave of Clubs--where she will meet with a dark young
man, who--Eight of Hearts--will entreat her assistance to forward his
interests with a fair girl--Nine of Diamonds--he having met with delays
and disappointment--Ace of Clubs--but a letter will arrive announcing
the possession of money, which will remove all difficulties.”

The third pack is “for those who did not expect it,” and will be
composed of four cards, let us say the Ten of Hearts, Nine of Clubs,
Eight of Spades, and Ten of Diamonds, signifying:

“The Ten of Hearts--An unexpected piece of good fortune and great
happiness--Nine of Clubs--caused by an unlooked-for legacy--Eight of
Spades--which joy may perhaps be followed by a slight sickness--Ten of
Diamonds--the result of a fatiguing journey.”

There now remains on the table only the card intended for the
“surprise.” This, however, must be left untouched, the other cards
gathered up, shuffled, cut, and again laid out in three packs, not
forgetting at the first deal to add a card to “the surprise.” After
the different packs have been duly examined and explained, as before
described, they must again be gathered up, shuffled, etc., indeed, the
whole operation repeated, after which the three cards forming “the
surprise” are examined; and supposing them to be the Seven of Hearts,
the Knave of Clubs, and the Queen of Spades, are to be thus interpreted:

“Seven of Hearts--pleasant thoughts and friendly intentions--Knave of
Clubs--of a dark young man--relative to a malicious dark woman, or
widow, who will cause him much unhappiness.”


DEALING THE CARDS BY SEVENS.

After having shuffled the pack of thirty-two selected cards--which, as
we before stated, consist of the Ace, King, Queen, Knave, Ten, Nine,
Eight, and Seven of each suit--either cut them yourself, or, if acting
for another person, let that person cut them, taking care to use the
_left_ hand. Then count seven cards, beginning with the one lying on
the top of the pack. The first six are useless, so put them aside, and
retain only the seventh, which is to be placed face uppermost on the
table before you. Repeat this three times more, then shuffle and cut
the cards you have thrown on one side, together with those remaining
in your hand, and tell them out in sevens as before, until you have
thus obtained twelve cards. It is, however, indispensable that the one
representing the person whose fortune is being told should be among the
number; therefore, the whole operation must be recommenced in case of
it not having made its appearance. Your twelve cards being now spread
out before you in the order in which they have come to hand, you may
begin to explain them as described in the manner of dealing the cards
in threes--always bearing in mind both their individual and relative
signification. Thus, you first count the cards by sevens, beginning
with the one representing the person for whom you are acting, going
from _right_ to _left_. Then take the two cards at either extremity
of the line or half-circle, and unite them, and afterwards form the
three heaps or packs and “the surprise” precisely as we have before
described. Indeed, the only difference between the two methods is the
manner in which the cards are obtained.


DEALING THE CARDS BY FIFTEENS.

After having well shuffled and cut the cards, or, as we have before
said, had them cut, deal them out in two packs, containing sixteen
cards in each. Desire the person consulting you to choose one of them;
lay aside the first card, to form “the surprise;” turn up the other
fifteen, and range them in a half-circle before you, going from left
to right, placing them in the order in which they come to hand, and
taking care to remark whether the one representing the person for whom
you are acting be among them. If not, the cards must be all gathered
up, shuffled, cut, and dealt as before, and this must be repeated until
the missing card makes its appearance in the pack chosen by the person
it represents. Now proceed to explain them--first, by interpreting
the meaning of any pairs, triplets, or quartettes among them; then by
counting them in sevens, going from right to left, and beginning with
the card representing the person consulting you; and lastly, by taking
the cards at either extremity of the line and pairing them. This being
done, gather up the fifteen cards, shuffle, cut, and deal them so as
to form three packs of each five cards. From each of these three packs
withdraw the topmost card, and place them on the one laid aside to form
“the surprise,” thus forming four packs of four cards each.

Desire the person for whom you are acting to choose one of these packs,
“for herself” or “himself,” as the case may be. Turn it up, and spread
out the four cards it contains, from left to right, explaining their
individual and relative signification. Next proceed in like manner with
the pack on your left hand, which will be “for the house;” then the
third one, “for those who do not expect it;” and lastly, “the surprise.”

In order to render our meaning perfectly clear, we will give another
example. Let us suppose that the pack for the person consulting you
is composed of the Knave of Hearts, the Ace of Diamonds, the Queen of
Clubs, and the Eight of Spades _reversed_. By the aid of the list of
meanings we have given, it will be easy to interpret them as follows:

“The Knave of Hearts is a gay young bachelor--the Ace of Diamonds--who
has written, or will very soon write, a letter--the Queen of Clubs--to
a dark woman--Eight of Spades reversed--to make proposals to her, which
will not be accepted.”

On looking back to the list of significations, it will be found to run
thus:

_Knave of Hearts._--A gay young bachelor, who thinks only of pleasure.

_Ace of Diamonds._--A letter soon to be received.

_Queen of Clubs._--An affectionate woman, but quick-tempered and touchy.

_Eight of Spades._--If reversed, a marriage broken off, or offer
refused.

It will thus be seen that each card forms, as it were, a phrase from
an assemblage of which nothing but a little practice is required to
form complete sentences. Of this we will give a further example, by
interpreting the signification of the three other packs--“for the
house,” “for those who do not expect it,” and “the surprise.” The first
of these, “for the house,” we will suppose to consist of the Queen of
Hearts, the Knave of Spades _reversed_, the Ace of Clubs, and the Nine
of Diamonds, which reads thus:

“The Queen of Hearts is a fair woman, mild and amiable in disposition,
who--Knave of Spades reversed--will be deceived by a dark, ill-bred
young man--the Ace of Clubs--but she will receive some good news, which
will console her--Nine of Diamonds--although it is probable that the
news may be delayed.”

The pack “for those who do not expect it,” consisting of the Queen of
Diamonds, the King of Spades, the Ace of Hearts _reversed_, and the
Seven of Spades, would signify:

“The Queen of Diamonds is a mischief-making woman--the King of
Spades--who is in league with a dishonest lawyer--Ace of Hearts
reversed--they will hold a consultation together--Seven of Spades--but
the harm they will do will soon be repaired.”

Last comes “the surprise,” formed by, we will suppose, the Knave of
Clubs, the Ten of Diamonds, the Queen of Spades, and the Nine of
Spades, of which the interpretation is:

“The Knave of Clubs is a clever, enterprising young man--Ten of
Diamonds--about to undertake a journey--Queen of Spades--for the
purpose of visiting a widow--Nine of Spades--but one or both of their
lives will be endangered.”


THE ITALIAN METHOD.

Take a pack composed of thirty-two selected cards, viz., the Ace,
King, Queen, Knave, Ten, Nine, Eight, and Seven of each suit. Shuffle
them well, and either cut or have them cut for you, according to
whether you are acting for yourself or another person. Turn up the
cards by threes, and when the triplet is composed of cards of the same
suit, lay it aside; when of three different suits, pass it by without
withdrawing any of the three; but when composed of two of one suit and
one of another, withdraw the highest card of the two. When you have
come to the end of the pack, gather up all the cards except those you
have withdrawn; shuffle, cut, and again turn up by threes. Repeat this
operation until you have obtained fifteen cards, which must then be
spread out before you, from _left_ to _right_, in the order in which
they come to hand.

Care must, however, be taken that the card representing the person
making the essay is among them; if not, the whole operation must be
recommenced until the desired result is obtained. We will suppose it to
be some dark lady--represented by the Queen of Clubs--who is anxious
to make the attempt for herself, and that the cards are laid out in
the following order, from left to right:--Ten of Diamonds, Queen of
Clubs, Eight of Hearts, Ace of Diamonds, Ten of Hearts, Seven of Clubs,
King of Spades, Nine of Hearts, Knave of Spades, Ace of Clubs, Seven
of Spades, Ten of Spades, Seven of Diamonds, Ace of Spades, Knave of
Hearts.

On examining them, you will find that there are three Aces among them,
announcing good news; but, as they are at some distance from each
other, that the tidings may be some time before they arrive.

The three tens denote that the conduct of the person consulting the
cards has not always been strictly correct. The two Knaves are enemies,
and the three Sevens predict an illness, caused by them.

You now begin to count _five_ cards, beginning with the Queen of Clubs,
who represents the person consulting you. The fifth card, being the
Seven of Clubs, announces that the lady will soon receive a small sum
of money. The next fifth card proving to be the Ace of Clubs, signifies
that this money will be accompanied by some very joyful tidings. Next,
comes the Ace of Spades, promising complete success to any projects
undertaken by the person consulting the cards; then the Eight of
Hearts, followed at the proper interval by the King of Spades, showing
that the good news will excite the malice of a dishonest lawyer; but
the Seven of Spades coming next announces that the annoyance he can
cause will be of short duration, and that a gay fair young man--the
Knave of Hearts--will soon console her for what she has suffered. The
Ace of Diamonds tells that she will soon receive a letter from this
fair young man--the Nine of Hearts--announcing a great success--Ten
of Spades--but this will be followed by some slight chagrin--Ten of
Diamonds--caused by a journey--Ten of Hearts--but it will soon pass,
although--Knave of Spades--a bad, dark young man will endeavor--Seven
of Diamonds--to turn her into ridicule. The Queen of Clubs, being
representative of herself, shows that it is towards _her_ that the
dark young man’s malice will be directed. Now take the cards at either
extremity of the line, and pair them together. The two first being the
Knave of Hearts and the Ten of Diamonds, you may say: “A gay young
bachelor is preparing to take a journey--Ace of Spades and Queen of
Clubs--which will bring him to the presence of the lady consulting
the cards, and cause her great joy. Seven of Diamonds and Eight of
Hearts--Scandal talked about a fair young girl. Ten of Spades and Ace
of Diamonds--tears shed upon receipt of a letter. Seven of Spades and
Ten of Hearts--great joy, mingled with slight sorrow. Seven of Clubs
and Ace of Clubs--A letter promising money. Knave of Spades and King
of Spades--the winning of a lawsuit. The Nine of Hearts, being the one
card left, promises complete success.”

Now gather up the cards, shuffle, cut, and deal them out in five
packs--one for the lady herself, one for the house, one for “those who
do not expect it,” one for “those who do expect it,” and one for “the
surprise,” in the first deal, laying one card aside for “consolation.”
The rest are then equally distributed among the other five packs, which
will four of them contain three cards, whilst the last only consists of
two.

We will suppose the first packet for the lady herself to be composed
of the Ace of Diamonds, the Seven of Clubs, and the Ten of Hearts. The
interpretation would run thus:

“Ace of Diamonds--a letter will be shortly received--Seven of
Clubs--announcing the arrival of a small sum of money--Ten of
Hearts--and containing some very joyful tidings.”

The second pack, “for the house,” containing the King of Spades, the
Nine of Hearts, and the Knave of Spades:

“The person consulting the cards will receive a visit--King
of Spades--from a lawyer--Nine of Hearts--which will greatly
delight--Knave of Spades--a dark, ill-disposed young man.”

The third pack, “for those who do not expect it,” composed of the Ace
of Spades, the Knave of Hearts, and the Ace of Clubs, would read:

“Ace of Spades--pleasure in store for--Knave of Hearts--a gay young
bachelor--Ace of Clubs--by means of money; but as the Knave of Hearts
is placed between two Aces, it is evident that he runs a great risk
of being imprisoned; and from the two cards signifying respectively
‘pleasure’ and ‘money,’ that it will be for having run into debt.”

The fourth pack, “for those who do expect it,” containing the Eight of
Hearts, the Queen of Clubs, and the Ten of Diamonds:

“The Eight of Hearts--the love-affairs of a fair young girl will
oblige--the Queen of Clubs--the person consulting the cards--Ten of
Diamonds--to take a journey.”

The fifth pack, “for the surprise,” consists of the Seven of Spades and
the Ten of Spades, meaning:

“Seven of Spades--slight trouble--Ten of Spades--caused by
some person’s imprisonment--The Card of Consolation--Seven of
Diamonds--which will turn out to have been a mere report.”


PRESENT, PAST, AND FUTURE.

The person wishing to try her fortune in this manner (we will suppose
her to be a young, fair person, represented by the Eight of Hearts),
must well shuffle, and cut with the left hand, the pack of thirty-two
cards; after which she must lay aside the topmost and undermost cards,
to form the surprise. There will now remain thirty cards, which must be
dealt out in three parcels--one to the left, one in the middle, and one
to the right.

The left-hand pack represents the Past; the middle, the Present; and
the one on the right hand, the Future. She must commence with the
“Past,” which we will suppose to contain these ten cards: The King of
Clubs, the Ace of Spades, the Knave of Diamonds, the Nine of Diamonds,
the Ace of Hearts, the Knave of Hearts, the Queen of Hearts, the King
of Spades, the Knave of Clubs, and the King of Hearts.

She would remark that picture-cards predominating was a favorable sign;
also that the presence of three Kings proved that powerful persons were
interesting themselves in her affairs. The three Knaves, however, warn
her to beware of false friends, and the Nine of Diamonds predicts some
great annoyance, overcome by some good and amiable person, represented
by the Queen of Hearts. The two Aces also give notice of a plot. Taking
the cards in the order they lay, the explanation would run thus:

“The King of Clubs--a frank, open-hearted man--Ace of Spades--fond of
gayety and pleasure, is disliked by Knave of Diamonds--an unfaithful
friend--Nine of Diamonds--who seeks to injure him. The Ace of
Hearts--a love-letter--Knave of Hearts--from a gay young bachelor to
a fair, amiable woman--Queen of Hearts--causes--King of Spades--a
lawyer to endeavor to injure a clever--Knave of Clubs--enterprising
young man, who is saved from him by--the King of Hearts--a good and
powerful man. Nevertheless, as the Knave of Clubs is placed between two
similar cards, he has run great risk of being imprisoned through the
machinations of his enemy.”

The second parcel, “the Present,” containing the Ten of Diamonds, the
Nine of Spades, the Eight of Spades, the Queen of Diamonds, the Queen
of Clubs, the Eight of Hearts, the Seven of Spades, the Ten of Spades,
Queen of Spades, the Eight of Diamonds, signifies:

“The Ten of Diamonds--a voyage or journey, at that moment taking
place--Nine of Spades--caused by the death or dangerous illness of some
one--Eight of Spades--whose state will occasion great grief--Queen of
Diamonds--to a fair woman. The Queen of Clubs--An affectionate woman
seeks to console--Eight of Hearts--a fair young girl, who is the person
making the essay--Seven of Spades--who has secret griefs--Ten of
Spades--causing her many tears--Queen of Spades--these are occasioned
by the conduct of either a dark woman or a widow, who--Eight of
Diamonds--is her rival.”

The third packet of cards, “the Future,” we will suppose to contain the
Eight of Clubs, the Ten of Clubs, the Seven of Diamonds, the Ten of
Hearts, the Seven of Clubs, the Nine of Hearts, the Ace of Diamonds,
the Knave of Spades, the Seven of Hearts, the Nine of Clubs, which
would read thus:

“In the first place, the large number of small cards foretells success
in enterprises, although the presence of three sevens predicts an
illness. The Eight of Clubs--a dark young girl--Ten of Clubs--is about
to inherit a large fortune--Seven of Diamonds--but her satirical
disposition will destroy--Ten of Hearts--all her happiness. Seven
of Clubs--A little money and--Nine of Hearts--much joy--Ace of
Hearts--will be announced to the person making the essay by a letter,
and--Knave of Spades--a wild young man--Seven of Hearts--will be
overjoyed at receiving--Nine of Clubs--some unexpected tidings.
The cards of surprise--viz., the King of Diamonds and the Ace of
Clubs--predict that a letter will be received from some military man,
and that it will contain money.”


THE STAR METHOD OF CONSULTING THE CARDS.

We will suppose the person making the essay to be a widow, and
consequently represented by the Queen of Spades. This card is,
therefore, to be withdrawn from the pack, and laid, face uppermost,
upon the table. The remaining thirty-one cards are then to be well
shuffled, cut, the topmost card withdrawn and placed lengthwise, and
face uppermost, above the head of the Queen of Spades. The cards are to
be shuffled, cut, and the topmost card withdrawn, twelve more times,
the manner of their arrangement being this: The Queen of Spades in the
center, the first card lengthwise above her head, the second ditto
at her feet, the third on her right side, the fourth on her left, the
fifth placed upright above the first, the sixth ditto below the second,
the seventh at the right of the third, the eighth at the left of the
fourth, the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, at the four corners,
and the thirteenth across the center card--the Queen of Spades--thus
forming a star.

[Illustration]

We will suppose these fourteen cards to be the Queen of Spades, which
represents the person making the essay; then--1. The Ace of Hearts; 2.
The King of Clubs; 3. The Ten of Clubs; 4. Nine of Diamonds; 5. Queen
of Clubs; 6. The Eight of Hearts; 7. The Ten of Spades; 8. The Knave of
Clubs; 9. The Seven of Clubs; 10. The Ten of Hearts; 11. The Knave of
Diamonds; 12. The Eight of Diamonds; 13. The Nine of Clubs. These being
placed at right angles, the person consulting them takes them up two by
two, beginning with those last laid down.

The first card, 12, the Eight of Diamonds, and the one in the
_opposite_ corner, viz., 11, the Knave of Diamonds, read--“Overtures
will be made--Knave of Diamonds--by a fair young man--next two
cards, 10 and 9, Ten of Hearts--which will prove unsuccessful--Seven
of Clubs--on account of something connected with money. Next two
cards, 8 and 7, the Knave of Clubs--a clever, dark young man--Ten of
Spades--will be greatly grieved by, 6--Eight of Hearts, a fair girl to
whom he is attached. Next two cards, 5 and 4, the Queen of Clubs--A
dark woman--Nine of Diamonds--will be annoyed at not receiving,
3--Ten of Clubs--a sum of money--next two cards, 2 and 1, the King of
Clubs--which was to have been sent her by a generous dark man, who is
fond of obliging his friends--Ace of Hearts--it will at last arrive,
accompanied by a love-letter--13th card, placed across the Queen of
Spades, Nine of Clubs--and be the cause of unexpected gain to the
person consulting the cards.” There is a shorter and simpler way of
doing this, by surrounding the card representing the person trying his
or her fortune, with a less number of cards.

The cards are shuffled and cut as before described, and the topmost one
withdrawn. We will suppose the center card to be the Knave of Clubs,
representing a dark young man--the first topmost one proves to be the
Ace of Clubs, and this is placed above the head of the Knave--the
second, the Eight of Hearts, is placed at his feet--the third, the
Knave of Diamonds, at his right side--the fourth, the Queen of Spades,
on his left. These read--“Ace of Clubs--You will soon receive a letter,
which will give you great pleasure--Eight of Hearts--from a fair
girl. Knave of Diamonds--An unfaithful friend--Queen of Spades--and a
malicious widow, will seek to injure you on that very account.”


TO KNOW IF YOU WILL GET YOUR WISH.

Shuffle the cards well, and cut, or have them cut, with the _left_
hand. Then deal out thirteen cards. If among these is to be found one
or more Aces lay them aside, shuffle and cut the remaining ones, and
again deal thirteen; withdraw the Aces as before, and again shuffle,
cut, and deal. If, in these three deals, all four aces make their
appearance, you will get your wish. If all the Aces come at the first
deal, the response is in the highest degree favorable.


THE ENGLISH METHOD OF CONSULTING THE CARDS.

Having described the French and Italian methods of consulting the
cards, we will proceed to notice the manner in which the art of
fortune-telling is generally practiced in England and Scotland.
Hitherto only thirty-two cards have been made use of, but now the whole
pack is employed. The significations also slightly differ; therefore we
shall first give a complete list of them, and then pass on to describe
how the cards are to be arranged, so as to disclose their mystic
meanings.

_Ace of Clubs._--Wealth, happiness, and peace of mind.

_King of Clubs._--A dark man, upright, faithful, and affectionate in
disposition.

_Queen of Clubs._--A dark woman, gentle and pleasing.

_Knave of Clubs._--A sincere, but hasty friend--also a dark man’s
thoughts.

_Ten of Clubs._--Unexpected riches, and loss of a dear friend.

_Nine of Clubs._--Disobedience to friends’ wishes.

_Eight of Clubs._--A covetous man--also warns against speculations.

_Seven of Clubs._--Promises good fortune and happiness; but bids a
person beware of the opposite sex.

_Six of Clubs._--Predicts a lucrative business.

_Five of Clubs._--A prudent marriage.

_Four of Clubs._--Cautions against inconstancy or change of object for
the sake of money.

_Three of Clubs._--Shows that a person will be more than once married.

_Two of Clubs._--A disappointment.

_Ace of Diamonds._--A letter--from whom, and about what, is seen by the
neighboring cards.

_King of Diamonds._--A fair man, hot-tempered, obstinate, and
revengeful.

_Queen of Diamonds._--A fair woman, fond of company, and a coquette.

_Knave of Diamonds._--A near relation, who considers only his own
interests. Also a fair person’s thoughts.

_Ten of Diamonds._--Money.

_Nine of Diamonds._--Show that a person is fond of roving.

_Eight of Diamonds._--A marriage late in life.

_Seven of Diamonds._--Satire, evil speaking.

_Six of Diamonds._--Early marriage and widowhood.

_Five of Diamonds._--Unexpected news.

_Four of Diamonds._--Trouble arising from unfaithful friends. Also a
betrayed secret.

_Three of Diamonds._--Quarrels, law-suits, and domestic disagreements.

_Two of Diamonds._--An engagement, against the wishes of friends.

_Ace of Hearts._--The house. If attended by Spades, it foretells
quarreling--if by Hearts, affection and friendship--by Diamonds, money
and distant friends--and Clubs, feasting and merry-making.

_King of Hearts._--A fair man of good-natured disposition, but hasty
and rash.

_Queen of Hearts._--A fair woman, faithful, prudent, and affectionate.

_Knave of Hearts._--The dearest friend of the consulting party. Also a
fair person’s thoughts.

_Ten of Hearts._--Is prophetic of happiness and many children--is
corrective of the bad tidings of cards next to it, and confirms good
ones.

_Nine of Hearts._--Wealth and high esteem. Also the wish card.

_Eight of Hearts._--Pleasure, company.

_Seven of Hearts._--A fickle and false friend, against whom be on your
guard.

_Six of Hearts._--A generous but credulous person.

_Five of Hearts._--Troubles caused by unfounded jealousy.

_Four of Hearts._--A person not easily won.

_Three of Hearts._--Sorrow caused by a person’s own imprudence.

_Two of Hearts._--Great success; but equal care and attention needed to
secure it.

_Ace of Spades._--Great misfortune, spite.

_King of Spades._--A dark, ambitious man.

_Queen of Spades._--A malicious, dark woman--generally a widow.

_Knave of Spades._--An indolent, envious person; a dark man’s thoughts.

_Ten of Spades._--Grief, imprisonment.

_Nine of Spades._--A card of very bad import, foretelling sickness and
misfortune.

_Eight of Spades._--Warns a person to be cautious in his undertakings.

_Seven of Spades._--Loss of a friend, attended with much trouble.

_Six of Spades._--Wealth through industry.

_Five of Spades._--Shows that a bad temper requires correcting.

_Four of Spades._--Sickness.

_Three of Spades._--A journey.

_Two of Spades._--A removal.

Having given the signification of the various cards, we will now
proceed to describe how they are to be employed. After having well
shuffled, cut them three times, and lay them out in rows of nine cards
each. Select any King or Queen you please to represent yourself;
and wherever you find that card placed, count nine cards every way,
reckoning it as one; and every ninth card will prove the prophetic one.
Before, however, beginning to count, study well the disposition of the
cards, according to their individual and relative signification. If a
married woman consult the cards, she must make her husband the King of
the same suit of which she is Queen; but if a single woman, she may
make any favorite male friend King of whatever suit she pleases. As the
Knaves of the various suits represent the _thoughts_ of the persons
represented by the picture-cards of a corresponding color, they should
also be counted from.


TO TELL WHETHER YOU WILL GET YOUR WISH.

To try whether you will get your wish, shuffle the cards well, all
the time keeping your thoughts fixed upon whatever wish you may have
formed; cut them once, and remark what card you cut; shuffle them
again, and deal out into three parcels. Examine each of these in turn,
and if you find the card you turned up next either the one representing
yourself--the Ace of Hearts or the Nine of Hearts--you will get your
wish. If it be in the same parcel with any of these, without being
next them, there is a chance of your wish coming to pass at some more
distant period; but if the Nine of Spades makes its appearance, you may
count on being disappointed.




GOOD AND BAD OMENS.


The word omen is well known to signify a sign, good or bad, or a
prognostic. It may be defined to be that indication of something
future which we get as it were by accident, and without seeking for.
A superstitious regard to omens seems anciently to have made very
considerable additions to the common load of infelicity. They are in
these enlightened days pretty generally disregarded, and we look back
with perfect security and indifference on those trivial and truly
ridiculous accidents which alternately afford matter of joy and sorrow
to our ancestors. Omens appear to have been so numerous, that we must
despair of ever being able to recover one-half of them, and to evince
that in all ages men have been self-tormentors, the bad omens fill a
catalogue infinitely more extensive than that of the good. An extensive
set of omens has been taken from what first happens to one, or what
animal or person one meets first in the morning, or at the commencement
of an undertaking--the _first-foot_, as it is called. To stumble has
been universally held to presage misfortune. Some semblance of a reason
might be found for this belief, inasmuch as stumbling may be supposed
to indicate that that self-possession and conscious courage, which
are in themselves half a victory over circumstances, are lacking--the
want of them, therefore, being half a defeat; but in most cases the
interpretation seems altogether arbitrary. The dread of a hare crossing
the path seems to be widely prevalent; while to see a wolf is a good
omen. This feeling is probably a remnant of warlike times, when the
timid hare suggested thoughts of cowardice and flight; while the bold
wolf, sacred to Odin, was emblematic of victory. The character of the
hare for being unlucky is also connected with the deep-rooted belief
that witches are in the habit of transforming themselves into hares.
That to meet an old woman is unlucky, is another very general belief,
arising, without doubt, from the same causes that led to their being
considered witches. In some places, women in general are unlucky as
first-foot, with the singular exception of women of bad reputation.
This belief prevailed as far back as the age of Chrysostom. Priests,
too, are ominous of evil. If hunters of old met a priest or friar,
they coupled up their hounds and went home in despair of any further
sport that day. This superstition seems to have died out, except in
the case of sailors, who still consider the clergy a “kittle cargo,”
as a Scotch skipper expressed it, and anticipate a storm or mischance
when they have a black coat on board. This seems as old as the prophet
Jonah. Sneezing, likewise, has long been looked upon as supernatural,
for this reason, that it is sudden, unaccountable, uncontrollable, and
therefore ominous. The person is considered as possessed for the time,
and a form of exorcism is used. A nurse would not think she had done
her duty, if, when her charge sneezes, she did not say, “Bless the
child,” just as the Greeks, more than two thousand years ago, said,
“Zeus protect thee.”

One general remark, however, it is important to make in regard to
omens. An omen is not conceived to be a mere sign of what is destined
to be--it is conceived as causing, in some mysterious way, the event
it forebodes; and the consequence, it is thought, may be prevented by
some counteracting charm. Thus the spilling of salt not only forebodes
strife, but strife is conceived as the consequence of the spilling
of the salt, and may be hindered by taking up the spilled salt, and
throwing it over the left shoulder. Perhaps half the superstitious
beliefs that yet survive among civilized and Christian communities
group themselves round the subject of love and marriage--of such
intense interest to all, yet so mysterious in its origin, and
problematic in its issue. The liking or passion for one individual
rather than any other is so unaccountable, that the God of Love has
been fabled blind; it is of the nature of fascination, magic, spell.
And then, whether happiness or the reverse shall be the result, seems
beyond the reach of ordinary calculation. All is apparently given
over to mystery, chance, fortune; and any circumstances may, for
what we know, influence or indicate what fortune’s wheel shall bring
round. Hence the innumerable ways of prognosticating which of two or
more persons shall be first married, who or what manner of person
shall be the future husband or wife, the number of children, etc. It
is generally at particular seasons, as at the Eve of St. Agnes, and
Halloween, that the veil of the future may thus be lifted.

The observation of _lucky_ and _unlucky_ days was once an important
matter, and was often the turning-point of great events. It is now
mostly confined to the one subject of marriage. In fixing the wedding
day, May among months and Friday among days are shunned by many people,
both in educated and uneducated circles; for in this matter, which
is the exclusive province of women, and in which sentiment and fancy
are in every way so much more active than reason, the educated and
uneducated are reduced to a level. We will give a large collection of
omens, with their interpretation, having selected from all the best
works on the subject, and will begin with “Good and Evil Days”:

1. In an old MS., the writer, after stating that the most learned
mathematicians have decided that the 1st of August, the 4th of
September, and the 11th of March are most injudicious to let blood,
and that philosophers have settled that the 10th of August, 1st
of December, and 6th of April are perilous to those who surfeit
themselves in eating and drinking, continues as follows, assigning
reasons why certain days should be marked as infelicitous:

“We read of an old Arabian philosopher, a man of divers rare
observations, who did remark three Mundayes in a year to be most
unfortunate either to let blood or begin any notable worke, viz., the
first Munday of April, ye weh day Caine was borne, and his brother
Abell slaine; the 2d is the first Munday of August, the which day Sodom
and Gomorrha were confounded; the 3d is the last Munday of December,
the which day Judas Iscariott was borne, who betrayed our Saviour Jesus
Christ. These three dayes, together with the Innocents’ Day, by divers
of the learned are reputed to be most unfortunate of all dayes, and
ought to be eschewed by all men for ye great mishaps which often do
occur in them.

“And thus much concerning the opinion of our ancient of dayes. So in
like manner I will repeat unto you certain dayes yt be observed by
some old writers, chiefly the ancient astrologians, who did allege
that there were 28 dayes in the yeare which were revealed by the
Angel Gabriel to the good Joseph, which ever have been remarked to
be very fortunate dayes either to purge, let bloud, cure wounds, use
merchandises, sow seed, plant trees, build houses, or taking journies,
in long or short voyages, in fighting or giving of battaile, or
skirmishing. They also doe alledge that children who were borne in any
of these dayes could never be poore; and all children who were put to
schooles or colledges in those dayes should become great schollars,
and those who were put to any craft or trade in such dayes should
become perfect artificers and rich, and such as were put to trade in
merchandise should become most wealthy. The dayes be these: the 3d
and 13th of January, ye 5th and 28th of Feb., ye 3d, 22d, and 30th of
March, the 5th, 22d, and 29th of April, ye 4th and 28th of May, ye 3d
and 8th of June, the 12th, 18th, and 15th of July, ye 12th of August,
ye 1st, 7th, 24th, and 28th of September, the 4th and 15th of October,
ye 13th and 19th of Novr., ye 23d and 26th of December. And thus much
concerning ye dayes which are by ye most curious part of ye learned
remarked to be good and evill.”

2. “Astronomers say that six days of the year are perilous of death;
and therefore they forbid men to let blood of them, or take any drink;
that is to say, January 3, July 1, October 2, the last of April, August
4, the last day going out of December. These six days with great
diligence ought to be kept, but namely [?mainly] the latter three,
for all the veins are then full. For then, whether man or beast be
knit in them within seven days, or certainly within fourteen days, he
shall die. And if they take any drinks within fifteen days, they shall
die; and if they eat any goose in three days, within forty days they
shall die; and if any child be born in these three latter days, they
shall die a wicked death. Astronomers and astrologers say that in the
beginning of March, the seventh night, or the fourteenth day, let the
blood of the right arm; and in the beginning of April, the 11th day,
of the left arm; and in the end of May, 3d or 5th day, on whether arm
thou wilt; and thus, of all the year, thou shalt orderly be kept from
the fever, the falling gout, the sister gout, and loss of thy sight.”

3. May has its fatalities; the notion that to be married in it is a
bad omen is as old as the age of Ovid. This is not disregarded in the
present day, which will explain the great number of marriages that take
place late in April.

It is remarkable that among the thirty-three sovereigns who have sat on
the English throne since William the Conqueror, although each of the
eleven months has witnessed the accession of one or more, the month of
May has not been so fortunate--none having ascended the throne within
its limits.

4. Friday is not now generally considered an unlucky day, although
many still hesitate before starting on a journey or getting married on
Friday. The following facts, derived from history, show how little we
have to dread “the fatal day:”

“On Friday, August 21, 1492, Christopher Columbus sailed on his great
voyage of discovery. On Friday, October 12, 1492, he first discovered
land. On Friday, January 4, 1493, he sailed on his return to Spain,
which, if he had not reached in safety, the happy result would never
have been known which led to the settlement on this vast continent.
On Friday, March 15, 1493, he arrived at Palos in safety. On Friday,
November 22, 1493, he arrived at Hispaniola, in his second voyage to
America. On Friday, June 13, 1494, he, though unknown to himself,
discovered the continent of America. On Friday, March 5, 1496, Henry
VIII. of England gave to John Cabot his commission, which led to the
discovery of North America. This is the first American state-paper in
England. On Friday, September 7, 1565, Melendez founded St. Augustine,
the oldest town in the United States by more than forty years. On
Friday, November 10, 1620, the _May-Flower_, with the Pilgrims, made
the harbor of Province Town, and on the same day they signed that
august compact, the forerunner of our present glorious constitution.
On Friday, December 22, 1620, the Pilgrims made their final landing
at Plymouth Rock. On Friday, February 22, George Washington, the
father of American freedom, was born. On Friday, June 16, Bunker Hill
was seized and fortified. On Friday, October 7, 1777, the surrender
of Saratoga was made, which had such power and influence in inducing
France to declare for our cause. On Friday, September 22, 1780, the
treason of Arnold was laid bare, which saved us from destruction. On
Friday, October 19, 1781, the surrender at Yorktown, the crowning glory
of the American arms, occurred. On Friday, July 7, 1776, the motion in
Congress was made by John Adams, seconded by Richard Henry Lee, that
the United States colonies were, and of right ought to be, free and
independent.”

5. “Nail gifts” are white specks on the finger-nails; which, according
to their respective situations, are believed to predict certain events,
as indicated in the following couplet, which is repeated whilst
touching the thumb and each finger in succession:

  A gift, a friend, a foe,
  A lover to come, a journey to go.

Sometimes the augury is expressed in positive terms; as,

  A gift on the thumb is sure to come:
  A gift on the finger is sure to linger.

This mode of prognostication is of long standing. Melton, in his
“Astrologaster,” a very old work, giving a catalogue of many
superstitious ceremonies, tells us that “to have yellow speckles in the
nailes of one’s hands is a greate signe of death.” In Reed’s old plays
we read:

  “When yellow spots do on your hands appear,
   Be certain then you of a corse shall hear.”

6. Sneezing has been held ominous from times of the most remote
antiquity.

The comet of 590 was, according to some authors, the occasion of
a custom, which is extensively diffused among all the nations of
Christendom. In the year of this comet a frightful plague prevailed,
which was alleged to be due to its influence. While the malady was at
its height, a sneezing was frequently followed by death; whence the
saying, _God bless you!_ with which, since that time, sneezers are
saluted. St. Austin tells us that “the ancients were wont to go to
bed again, if they sneezed while they put on their shoe.” Aristotle
says: “Sneezing from noon to midnight was good, but from night to noon
unlucky.”

7. The custom of throwing an old shoe for good luck over or after the
bride and bridegroom, upon their leaving the church, or the home of the
bride, after the wedding, has, of late years, been as it were revived.
It is, unquestionably, one of those demonstrations of good wishes which
find their way in the commonest modes of expression. But, it is not
confined to weddings; the propitiation extends to all prospective views
of good fortune.

It is related that an English cattle-dealer desired his wife to
“trull her left shoe arter him,” when he started for Norwich to buy a
lottery-ticket. As he drove off on his errand, he looked round to see
if she practiced the charm, and consequently he received the shoe in
his face, with such force as to black his eyes. He went, and bought his
ticket, which turned up a prize of £600.

8. The horse-shoe has been, from time immemorial, considered a
protection from witchcraft and other ills; and has been nailed at the
entrance of dwellings, to prevent the entrance of witches.

Butler, in “Hudibras,” makes his conjurer chase away evil spirits by
the horse-shoe; and Gay, in one of his Fables, makes a supposed witch
complain:

  “The horse-shoe’s nailed, each threshold’s guard.”

Nelson the great English admiral, was of a credulous turn, had great
faith in the luck of a horse-shoe, and one was nailed to the mast of
the ship _Victory_. “Lucky Dr. James” attributed the success of his
fever-powder to his finding a horse-shoe. When a poor apothecary,
he was introduced to Newbery, of St. Paul’s church-yard, to vend
the medicine for him. One Sunday morning, as James was on his way
to Newbery’s country-house at Vauxhall, in passing over Westminster
Bridge, seeing a horse-shoe lying in the road, and considering it to be
a sign of good luck, he put the shoe into his pocket. As Newbery was a
shrewd man, he became James’s agent for the sale of his fever-powder;
whilst the doctor ascribed all his success to the horse-shoe, which he
subsequently adopted as the crest upon his carriage. (See 62.)

9. Cauls are little membranes found on some children, encompassing the
head when born. This is thought a good omen to the child itself, and
many believe that whoever obtains it by purchase will be fortunate and
escape dangers. The caul is esteemed an infallible preservative against
drowning, and is much sought after by sailors.

10. Salt falling toward a person was considered formerly as a very
unlucky omen. Something had either already happened to one of the
family, or was shortly to befall the persons spilling it. It denotes
also the quarreling of friends. It is thought, however, that the evil
consequences arising from spilling salt may be averted by throwing a
little of the salt over the left shoulder, or immediately eating a
_pinch_ of it. In the “British Apollo,” published in London, 1708, we
find the following in relation to the superstition:

  “We’ll tell you the reason
           Why spilling of salt
           Is esteemed such a fault;
   Because it doth everything season.
           The antiques did opine,
           ’Twas of friendship a sign,
   So served it to guests in decorum;
           And thought love decayed,
           When the negligent maid
   Let the saltcellar tumble before them.”

11. The casual putting the left shoe on the right foot, or the right on
the left, was thought in old times to be the forerunner of some unlucky
accident. Scott, in his “Discovery of Witchcraft,” tells us: “He that
receiveth a mischance will consider whether he put not on his shirt
wrong side outwards, or his left shoe on his right foot.” Thus Butler
in his “Hudibras”:

  “Augustus, having b’ oversight,
   Put on his left shoe ’fore his right,
   Had like to have been slain that day.
   By soldiers mutiny’ng for pay.”

Similar to this is putting on one stocking with the wrong side outward,
without design; though changing it alters the luck; and if you
accidentally put on any garment wrong side out, and make a wish before
changing it, the wish will come true.

12. To arise on the _right_ side is accounted lucky. In the old play of
the “Dumb Knight,” published 1633, Act iv., Scene 1, Alphonso says:

  “Sure I said my prayers, _rose on my right side_,
   Washed my hands and eyes, put on my girdle last;
   Sure I met no splay-footed baker,
   No hare did cross me, nor no bearded witch,
   Nor other ominous sign.” (See 27.)

13. When the nose itches, it is a sign that you will have company visit
you the same day. In Melton’s “Astrologaster,” No. 27, it is observed
“that when a _man’s nose itcheth_ it is a sign he shall drink wine;”
and in No. 28, that, “if _your lips itch_, it is a sign you shall kisse
somebody.”

14. The nose falling a-bleeding appears, by the following passage from
an old play, to have been an omen of bad luck:

  “How superstitiously we mind our evils!
   The throwing down of salt, or crossing of a hare,
   _Bleeding at nose_, the stumbling of a horse,
   Or singing of a cricket, are of power
   To daunt whole man in us.” (See 27 and 40.)

15. Washing the hands, says Grose, in the same basin, or with the same
water, that another person has washed in, is extremely unlucky, as the
parties will infallibly quarrel.

16. Candle omens are very numerous. Melton, in his “Astrologaster,”
says: “If a candle burne blue, it is a signe that there is a spirit in
the house, or not farre from it.” A collection of tallow, says Grose,
rising up against the wick of a candle, is styled a winding sheet, and
deemed an omen of death in the family.

A spark at the candle, says the same author, denotes that the party
opposite to it will shortly receive a letter. A kind of fungus in the
candle, observes the same writer, predicts the visit of a stranger from
the part of the country nearest the object. Others say it implies the
arrival of a parcel. (See 59.)

Dr. Goldsmith, in his “Vicar of Wakefield,” speaking of the waking
dreams of his hero’s daughters, says: “The girls had their omens too;
they saw rings in the candles.”

17. In the “Secret Memoirs of the late Mr. Duncan Campbell,” published
in London, 1732, the author says: “I have seen people who, after
writing a _letter_, have prognosticated to themselves the ill success
of it, if by any accident it happened to fall to the ground; others
have seemed as impatient and exclaiming against their want of thought,
if through haste or forgetfulness they have chanced to hold it before
the fire to dry; but the mistake of a word in it is a sure omen that
whatever requests it carries shall be refused.”

18. If two spoons are accidentally placed in a cup or saucer at table,
it signifies a wedding will soon take place in the family.

19. To have a picture drop out of its frame, or to have a precious
stone or any ornament drop from its setting while wearing or using it,
is a bad omen.

Stow, in his _Chronicle_, relates that the silver cross which was wont
to be carried before Wolsey fell out of its socket, and was like to
have knocked out the brains of one of his servants. A very little while
after came in a messenger, and arrested the cardinal before he could
get out of the house.

20. The removal of a long-worn ring from the finger was thought unlucky
in Elizabeth’s time; for the Queen, in her last illness (says Baker),
commanded the ring to be filed off her finger, wherewith she was so
solemnly at first inaugurated into the kingdom, and since that time had
never taken it off; it being grown into the flesh of the finger in such
a manner that it could not be drawn off without filing.

21. There is an omen called “Setting the New Year in,”--that if the
kindly office is performed by some one with _dark_ hair, good fortune
will smile on the household; while it augurs ill if a _light-haired_
person is the first to enter the house in the New Year.

22. It is a very ancient superstition that all sudden pains of the
body, and other sensations which could not naturally be accounted
for, were presages of somewhat that was shortly to happen. Shakspeare
alludes to this in the following lines from Macbeth:

  “By the pricking of my thumbs,
   Something wicked this way comes.”

23. In olden times, the cat sneezing appears to have been considered as
a lucky omen to a bride who was to be married the next day.

24. Small spiders, termed _money spinners_, are held by many to
prognosticate good luck, if they are not destroyed or injured, or
removed from the person on whom they are first observed. In the “Secret
Memoirs” of Mr. Duncan Campbell, in the chapter of omens, we read that
“others have thought themselves secure of receiving money, if by chance
a little spider fell upon their clothes.” (See 33.)

25. It is extremely unlucky, says Grose, to kill a lady-bug, a swallow,
robin redbreast, or wren. There is a particular distich, he adds, in
favor of the robin and wren:

  “A robin and a wren
   Are God Almighty’s cock and hen.”

Persons killing any of the above-named birds or insects, or destroying
their nests, will infallibly, within the course of the year, break a
bone, or meet with some other dreadful misfortune. On the contrary, it
is deemed lucky to have swallows build their nests in the eaves of a
house, or in the chimneys.

In an old pastoral published in London, 1770, the following occurs:

  “I found a _robin’s nest_ within our shed,
   And in the barn a _wren_ had young ones bred.
   I never take away their nest, nor try
   To catch the old ones, lest a friend should die.
   Dick took a wren’s nest from his cottage side,
   And ere a twelvemonth past his mother dy’d.”

26. It is deemed very unlucky to hear a screech-owl at night. “If an
owl,” says Bourne, “which is reckoned a most abominable and unlucky
bird, send forth its hoarse and dismal voice, it is the omen of the
approach of some terrible thing--that some dire calamity and some great
misfortune is at hand.” (See 56.)

This omen occurs in Chaucer:

  “The jelous swan, ayenst hys deth that singeth,
   The _oule_ eke, that of deth the bode bringeth.”

The following lines occur in the old pastoral before quoted in 25:

  “Within my cot, where quiet gave me rest,
   Let the dread screech-owl build her hated nest,
   And from my window o’er the country send
   Her midnight screams to bode my latter end.”

27. It has always been considered a very bad omen to have a hare
(see 14), sow, or weasel cross your path when going on a journey or
to business. Melton, in his “Astrologaster,” says, that “it is a
very unfortunate thing for a man to meete early in the morning an
ill-favored man or woman, a rough-footed hen, a shag-haired dog, or a
black cat.” Shaw, in his “History of Money,” tells us that the ancient
Scots much regarded omens in their expeditions; an armed man or a wolf
meeting them was a good omen; if a woman barefoot crossed the road
before them, they seized her and fetched blood from her forehead; if a
deer, fox, hare, or any kind of game appeared, and they did not kill
it, it was an unlucky omen. We gather from a remarkable book, entitled
“The School-master,” published in London, 1583, that in the ages of
chivalry it was thought unlucky to meet with a priest, if a man was
going forth to war or a tournament.

The following superstitions among the Malabrians are related in
Phillips’s account of them, published in 1717: “It is interpreted as a
very bad sign if a blind man, a Bramin, or a washerwoman meets one on
the way; as also when one meets a man with an empty panel, or when one
sees an oil mill, or if a man meets us with his head uncovered, or when
one hears a weeping voice, or sees a cat or fox crossing the way, or a
dog running on his right hand, or when a poor man or a widow meets us
on our way, or when we are called back.” (See 37.)

Gaule, in his “Mag-astromancers Posed and Puzzel’d,” holds it as
a vain observation “to bode good or bad luck from the rising up on
the right or left side (see 12); from lifting the left leg over the
threshold, at first going out of doors; from the meeting of a beggar or
a priest the first in a morning; the meeting of a virgin or a harlot
first; the running in of a child between two friends; the justling one
another at unawares; one treading upon another’s toes; to meet one
fasting that is lame or defective in any member; to wash in the same
water with another.” (See 15.)

28. To walk under a ladder portends disappointment.

29. To comb your hair after dark is also a sign of disappointment.

30. If a young lady loses her garter, it presages that she has an
inconstant lover; therefore, O lady, when thou hast this ill augury,
look about thee, and become the happy possessor of two strings to thy
bow, or, what is the same thing, two beaus to thy string.

N. B.--Rich or very good-looking young ladies may treat the above with
disdain.

31. If you sing before breakfast, it denotes that you will cry before
supper.

32. To drop a dish-cloth, duster, or any cleaning cloth, signifies the
arrival of one or more visitors.

33. If a spider, in weaving his web in some high place, comes downward
before your face, you may look for money from some unexpected source.
(See 24.)

34. If you make a rhyme involuntarily, before speaking again make a
wish, and it will be fulfilled.

35. When you sleep in a strange bed, remember your dream and tell it
before breakfast. Observing these precautions, the dream will probably
come to pass.

36. To break a needle while making a garment, is a sign that the owner
will live to wear it out.

37. If you return after starting on a journey, it signifies bad luck.
(See 27.)

38. To remove a cat, with a family when changing residence, will bring
bad luck.

39. If a vacant rocking-chair is rocked violently, the next person who
sits in it will be in danger of being ill within the year.

40. It is a lucky sign to have crickets in the house. Grose says it is
held extremely unlucky to kill a cricket, perhaps from the idea of its
being a breach of hospitality, this insect taking refuge in houses. The
voice of a cricket, says the “Spectator,” has struck more terror than
the roaring of a lion.

The following line occurs in Dryden’s and Lee’s “Œdipus:”

  “Owls, ravens, _crickets_, seem the watch of death.”

Melton says that “it is a signe of death to some in that house where
crickets have been many yeares, if on a sudden they forsake the
chimney.” (See 14.)

41. It is said that a married person will not get rich until the
wedding clothes are worn out. It is also said to be a sign that one
will fail to get rich who tries to see to work between daylight and
dark.

42. It is a bad omen to postpone a marriage after the time positively
appointed.

43. If your right ear burns or itches, it is a sign that some absent
person is speaking well of you; your left ear burning, signifies that
you are being spoken ill of.

44. The superstition has become almost universal, that the ticking of a
little insect called the “death-watch,” presages the death of some one
in the house.

“How many people have I seen in the most terrible palpitations, for
months together, expecting every hour the approach of some calamity,
only by a little worm, which breeds in an old wainscot, and,
endeavoring to eat its way out, makes a noise like the movement of a
watch!”--_Secret Memoirs of the late Mr. Duncan Campbell_, 1732.

The following witty account of this superstition, by Dean Swift,
furnishes us with a charm to avert the omen:

                      ----“A wood-worm
  That lies in old wood, like a hare in her form,
  With teeth or with claws it will bite, or will scratch,
  And chambermaids christen this worm a death-watch,
  Because, like a watch it always cries click;
  Then woe be to those in the house who are sick;
  For as sure as a gun they will give up the ghost,
  If the maggot cries click, when it scratches the post.
  But a kettle of boiling hot water injected
  Infallibly cures the timber affected;
  The omen is broken, the danger is over,
  The maggot will die, and the sick will recover.”

45. If a knife, scissors, or any sharp-pointed instrument is dropped,
and stands, sticking in the floor, company may be expected.

46. The right hand itching is a sign that the person will shake hands
with a stranger; the left hand itching is a sign that money will be
received soon.

47. If you sing during any meal, it is a sign you will soon be
disappointed.

48. To cross a funeral procession is an ill omen.

49. To find a pearl in an oyster betokens good fortune.

50. To break a looking-glass foretells death. Grose tells us that
“breaking a looking-glass betokens a mortality in the family, commonly
the master.” Bonaparte’s (Napoleon I.) superstition upon this point
is often recorded. “During one of his campaigns in Italy,” says M.
de Constant, “he broke the glass over Josephine’s portrait. He never
rested till the return of the courier he forthwith dispatched to assure
himself of her safety, so strong was the impression of her death upon
his mind.”

51. To find a trefoil, or four-leaved clover, implies good luck; a
five-leaved clover, bad luck. Melton, in his “Astrologaster,” says that
“if a man walking in the fields, finde any foure-leaved grasse, he
shall, in a small while after, finde some good thing.”

52. If four persons cross hands while in the act of shaking hands, it
indicates that two of the party will soon be married.

53. If three unmarried persons having the same Christian name meet at
table, it is a sign that one of the three will be married within a year.

54. To be startled by a snake is a sign of sickness.

55. When thirteen persons sit down together at table, it is a sign that
one of the party will die within a year. Fosbroke, in his _Encyclopædia
of Antiquities_, states that “thirteen in company was considered
an unlucky number by the ancient Romans;” but he does not give any
classical authority for this statement.

There is at Dantzic a clock, which at 12 admits, through a door,
Christ and the eleven, shutting out Judas, who is admitted at 1. But
is not the belief older than the clock? The iniquity of Judas may have
led him to be considered the thirteenth at the Lord’s Supper; and
his self-destruction may have given to the number thirteen its fatal
association.

It has, however, been explained away by M. Quetelet, in his work on
_Probabilities_ as follows: “If the probability be required, that out
of thirteen persons, of different ages, one of them, at least, shall
die within a year, it will be found that the chances are about one to
one that one death, at least, will occur. This calculation, by means
of a false interpretation, has given rise to the prejudice, no less
ridiculous, that the danger will be avoided by inviting a greater
number of guests, which can only have the effect of augmenting the
probability of the event so much apprehended.”

This belief obtains in Italy and Russia, as well as in England. Moore,
in his _Diary_, vol. ii., p. 206, mentions there being thirteen at
dinner, one day, at Madame Catalani’s, when a French countess, who
lived with her up-stairs, was sent for to remedy the grievance.

“Lord L(ansdowne) said he had dined once abroad with Count Orloff, and
perceived he did not sit down at dinner, but kept walking from chair
to chair; he found afterward it was because the Narishken were at
table, who, he knew, would rise instantly if they perceived the number
thirteen, which Orloff would have made by sitting down himself.” (See
63.)

56. If a dog bays under your window at night, it portends sickness or
death.

Shakspeare ranks this among omens. In the play of Henry VI., he says:

  “The owl shrieked at thy birth; an evil sign!
   The night-crow cry’d, aboding luckless time;
   _Dogs howl’d_, and hideous tempests shook down trees.”

57. The howling of dogs, says Grose, is a certain sign that some one of
the family will very shortly die.

The following passage is in the “Merry Devil” of Edmonton, 1631:

            “I hear the watchful dogs
  With hollow howling tell of thy approach.”

58. If you break your shoe-string, look out for your sweetheart, for
she will bestow her love upon a stranger.

59. A flake of soot hanging at the bars of the grate, denotes the
visit of a stranger, like the fungus of a candle, from the part of the
country nearest the object.

Dr. Goldsmith, in his “Vicar of Wakefield,” among the omens of his
hero’s daughters, tells us “purses bounded from the fire.” In some
parts of England, the cinders that bound from the fire are carefully
examined by old women and children, and according to their respective
forms are called either _coffins_ or _purses_; and consequently thought
to be presages of death or wealth.

A coal, says Grose, in the shape of a coffin, flying out of the fire
towards any particular person, betokens their death not far off.

Cowper alludes to this superstition in the following lines in his
“Winter Evening:”

  “Me oft has fancy, ludicrous and wild,
   Sooth’d with a waking dream of _houses_, _towers_,
   _Trees_, _churches_, and strange visages express’d
   _In the red cinders_, while with poring eye
   I gazed, myself creating what I saw.
   Nor less amused have I quiescent watch’d
   _The sooty films that play upon the bars,_
   _Pendulous, and foreboding_ in the view
   Of superstition, _prophesying still_,
   Though still deceived, some stranger’s near approach.”

60. To drop a slice of bread, with the buttered side down, is a sign
that a visitor will come hungry.

61. To eat up all the food which is on the table at tea-time, is a sign
that the morrow will be a fair day.

62. In olden times it was not considered a good omen to find money.
Melton says that “it is a sign of ill-luck to find money.” We have seen
superstitious people, at the present day, keep for luck any piece of
money they found, but Greene, in his “Art of Cony-Catching,” a very old
work, tells us: “’Tis ill luck to keep found money.” Therefore it must
be spent. Mason, in his “Anatomie of Sorcerie,” 1612, enumerating our
superstitions, mentions as one omen of good luck, “if drink be spilled
upon a man: or if he find old iron.” Hence it is accounted a lucky omen
to find a _horseshoe_. (See 8.)

63. The ancients thought there was luck in odd numbers. In setting a
hen, says Grose, the good women hold it as an indispensible rule to
put an odd number of eggs. All sorts of remedies are ordered to be
taken, three, seven, or nine times. Salutes of cannon consist of an odd
number. Notwithstanding these opinions in favor of odd numbers, the
number thirteen is considered very ominous. (See 55.)


CONCLUDING REMARKS.

The belief in omens has existed in all ages and countries, and traces
of it linger even yet in the most civilized communities, in the dread,
for instance, that many entertain of sitting down to table in a party
of thirteen. Not a little of the philosophy of omens is contained in
the Scottish proverb: “Them who follow freits, freits follow;” meaning
that a fantastic belief in impending evil paralyzes the endeavor that
might prevent it.

There are few omens, perhaps none, which are not universal in their
authority, though every land in turn fancies them (like its proverbs)
of local prescription and origin. The death-watch extends from America
to Cashmere, and across India diagonally to the remotest nook of
Bengal, over three thousand miles distance from the entrance of the
Indian Punjaub. A hare crossing a man’s path, on starting in the
morning, has been held in all countries alike to prognosticate evil in
the course of that day.




WEATHER OMENS.


FOR FINE AND DRY WEATHER OF LONG CONTINUANCE.

1. If the wind be north, north-west, or east, then veer to the
north-east, remain there two or three days without rain, and then veer
to the south without rain; and if thence it change quickly, though
perhaps with a little rain, to the north-east, and remain there--such
fine weather will last occasionally for two months.

2. If there be dry weather with a weak south wind for five, six, or
seven days, it having previously blown strongly from the same quarter.

3. If spiders in spinning their webs, make the terminating filaments
long, we may, in proportion to their length, conclude that the weather
will be serene, and continue so for ten or twelve days.

4. If there are no falling stars to be seen on a bright summer’s
evening, you may look for fine weather.

5. If there be a change from continued stormy or wet to clear and dry
weather, at the time of new or full moon, or a short time before or
after, and so remain until the second day of the new or full moon, it
is likely to remain fine till the following quarter; and if it change
not then, or only for a very short time, it usually lasts until the
following new or full moon; and if it does not change then, or only for
a very short time, it is likely to continue fine and dry for four or
five weeks.

6. If there be a change of weather at the time of the quarters, &c.
(under the same circumstances as in No. 5), it will probably last for
some time.

7. Spiders generally alter their webs once in 24 hours; if they do this
between six and seven in the evening, there will be a fine night; if
they alter their web in the morning, a fine day; if they work during
rain, expect fine weather; and the more active and busy the spider is,
the finer will be the weather.

8. If near the full moon there be a general mist before sunrise; or

9. If there be a sheep-sky, or white clouds driving to the north-west,
it will be fine for some days.


FOR FOUL AND WET WEATHER.

10. If the sun rise pale, or pale-red, or even dark-blue, there will be
_rain during the day_.

11. If the clouds at sunrise be red, there will be _rain the following
day_.

12. If at sunrise many dark clouds are seen in the west, and remain,
there will be _rain on that day_.

13. If the sun rise covered with a dark-spotted cloud; _rain the same
day_.

14. If in the winter there be a red sky at sunrise; _steady rain same
day_; in summer, _showers and wind_.

15. If the sun set in dark heavy clouds; _rain next day_.

16. But if it rain directly; _wind the following day_.

17. If the sun set pale or purple; _rain or wind the following day_.

18. If the sun set, and there be a very red sky in the east, _wind_; in
the south-east, _rain_.

19. If long strips of clouds drive at a slow rate high in the air, and
gradually become larger, the sky having been previously clear, there
will be wet.

20. If there be many falling stars on a clear evening, in the summer,
there will be _thunder_.

21. If there be a change of the wind from the north-west or west, to
the south-west or south, or else from the north-east or east, to the
south-east or south; _wet_.

22. If the sun burn more than usual, or there be a halo round the sun
during fine weather; _wet_.

23. If it rain and the sun shine; _showers_.

24. If the full moon rise pale; _wet_.

25. If the full moon rise red; _wind_.

26. If the stars appear larger, and closer, and flicker; _rain or wind_.

27. If small white clouds, with rough edges, be seen to gather
together; _there will be wind_.

28. Before thunder it often begins to blow.

29. If there be a fleecy sky, unless driving north-west; _wet_.

30. If clouds at different heights float in different directions.

31. If an assemblage of large or small clouds spread out, or become
thicker and darker.

32. If clouds suddenly appear in the south.

33. If the lower clouds drive more from the south than those above.

34. If there be rain about two hours after sunrise, it will be followed
by _showers_.

35. If there be a damp fog or mist, accompanied with wind; _wet_.

36. If there be a halo round the moon, in fine weather; and the larger
the circle, the nearer the _rain_.

37. If the stars above 45 degrees, especially the North Star, flicker
strongly and appear closer than usual, there will be _rain_.

38. If the morning be clear and sunny, in summer or autumn, there will
be _rain_.

39. If the fields in the morning be covered with a heavy wet fog, it
will _generally rain within two or three days_.

40. “A rainbow in the morning is the shepherd’s warning.”


FOR STORM.

41. If the clouds be of different heights, the sky above being grayish
or dirty blue, with hardly any wind stirring; the wind, however,
changing from W. to S., or sometimes to S. E., without perceptibly
increasing in force.

42. If there be a clouded sky, and dark clouds driving fast (either
with the wind or more from the south), under the higher clouds, violent
gusts of wind.

43. If there be long points, tails, or feathers hanging from thunder
or rain-clouds, five, six, or more degrees above the horizon, with
little wind in summer, thunder may be expected; but the storm will be
generally of short duration.

44. If there be a light blue sky, with thin, light, flying clouds,
whilst the wind goes to the south without much increase in force; or a
dirty-blue sky, where no clouds are to be seen; storm.

45. If the sun be seen double, or more times reflected in the clouds,
expect a heavy storm.

46. If the sun set with a very red sky in the east, expect stormy wind.

47. If two or three rings be seen round the moon, which are spotted and
spread out, expect a storm of long continuance.

48. If porpoises and whales sport about ships.

49. If sea-gulls and other birds fly inland.

50. Storms are most frequent in December, January and February. In
September, there are generally one or two storms. If it blow in the
day, it generally hushes toward evening; but if it continue blowing
then, it may be expected to continue. The vernal equinoctial gales are
stronger than the autumnal.


FOR THUNDER AND HEAVY RAIN.

51. If long horizontal strips appear with two or three edges spreading
out at top into feathers, and passing over the middle of other clouds,
generally there will be thunder.

52. If the clouds be uniformly black, or dark gray.

53. In May and July it thunders most; in May, expect thunder with a
south-west wind.

54. If there be north-east or easterly wind in the spring, after a
strong increase of heat, and small clouds appear in different parts of
the sky; or if the wind change from east to south at the appearance of
clouds preceded by heat.

55. If a morning fog form into clouds, at different heights, which
increase in size and drive in layers.

56. If clouds float at different heights and rates, but generally in
opposite directions.

57. If there be many “falling stars” on a fine summer’s eve.

58. If there be sheet lightning, with a clear sky, on spring, summer,
and autumn evenings.

59. If the wind be hushed with sudden heat.

60. If clover contract its leaves.

61. If there be thunder in the evening, there will be much rain and
showery weather.


FOR THE APPROACH OF THUNDER.

62. If an east wind blow against a dark heavy sky from the westward,
the wind decreasing in force as the clouds approach.

63. If the clouds rise and twist in different directions.

64. If the birds be silent.

65. If cattle run round and collect together in the meadows.


FOR CONTINUED THUNDER SHOWERS.

66. If there be showery weather, with sunshine, and increase of heat
in the spring, a thunder storm may be expected every day, or at least
every other day.


ABATEMENT OF THUNDER STORMS.

67. If the air be very dry, with clear, yet cooler weather; or if one
or two following days the atmosphere be heavy, with a little damp
falling.

68. With a north wind it seldom thunders; but with a south and
south-west wind, often.


FOR COLDER WEATHER.

69. If the wind change to the north and north-east.

70. If the wind change, _in summer only_, to the north-west.

71. If the wind shift to the east _in summer only_.

72. If the wind shift from south to south-east _in winter_.


FOR INCREASE OF WARMTH OR HEAT.

73. If the wind shift round to the south and south-west.

74. If the wind change from east, north-east, or north, to north-west
and west, _in the winter_.

75. If the wind change to the east, _in summer only_; especially if
from north-east.

76. If the wind change to south-east, _especially in summer_.


FOR FROST.

77. If birds of passage arrive early from colder climates.

78. If the cold increase _whilst it snows_, as soon as it begins to
freeze.

79. If the wind blow north-east _in winter_.

80. If the ice crack much, expect the frost to continue.

81. If the mole dig his hole two feet and a half deep, _expect a very
severe winter_. If two feet deep, not so severe; one foot deep, a mild
winter.

82. If water-fowl or sparrows make more noise than usual; also if
robins approach nearer houses than usual; _frost_.

83. If there be a dark, gray sky, with a south wind.

84. If there be continued fogs.

85. If the fire burn unusually fierce and bright in winter there will
be frost and clear weather; if the fire burn dull, expect damp and rain.


FOR THAW.

86. If snow fall in flakes, which increase in size.

87. If the heat increase in the afternoon, or suddenly before twelve
o’clock.

88. If clouds drive up high from the south, south-west, or west.

89. If it freeze, and the barometer fall 20 or 30 hundredths.




HYMEN’S LOTTERY.


Let each one present deposit any sum agreed on, but of course some
trifle; put a complete pack of fifty-two cards, well shuffled, in a bag
or reticule. Let the party stand in a circle, and the bag being handed
around, each draw three cards. Pairs of any are favorable omens of
some good fortune about to occur to the party, and gets back from the
pool the sum that each agreed to pay. The king of hearts is here made
the god of love, and claims double, and gives a faithful swain to the
fair one who has the good fortune to draw him; if Venus, the queen of
hearts, is with him, it is the conquering prize, and clears the pool;
fives and nines are reckoned crosses and misfortunes, and pay a forfeit
of the sum agreed on to the pool, besides the usual stipend at each new
game; three nines at one draw shows the lady will be an old maid; three
fives, a bad husband.




LIST OF UNLUCKY DAYS,


_Which, to those Persons being males born on them, will generally prove
unfortunate._

  January, 3, 4.
  February, 6, 7, 12, 13, 19, 20.
  March, 5, 6, 12, 13.
  May, 12, 13, 20, 21, 26, 27.
  June, 1, 2, 9, 10, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24.
  July, 3, 4, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18.
  October, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 31.
  November, 1, 3.

Almost all persons (being of the male sex) that are born on the days
included in the foregoing table, will, in a greater or less degree
suffer, not only by pecuniary embarrassment and losses of property,
but will also experience great distress and anxiety of mind, much
dissatisfaction, dissension, and unhappiness in their family affairs,
much dissatisfaction to each other among the married ones (indeed few
of them can ever be happy in the married state), trouble about their
children, daughters forming unfortunate attachments, and a variety of
untoward events of other descriptions which our limits do not allow
us to particularize. The influence of these days are of a quality and
tendency calculated to excite in the minds of persons born on them, an
extraordinary itch for speculation, to make changes in their affairs,
commence new undertakings of various kinds, but all of them will tend
nearly to one point, loss of property and pecuniary embarrassments.
Such persons who embark their capital on credit in new concerns or
engagements, will be likely to receive checks or interruptions to
the progress of their schemes or undertakings. Those who enter into
engagements intended to be permanent, whether purchases, leases,
partnerships, or in short any other speculation of a description which
cannot readily be transferred or got rid of will dearly _repent their
bargains_.

They will find their affairs from time to time much interrupted and
agitated, and experience many disappointments in money matters, trouble
through bills, and have need of all their activity and address to prop
their declining credit; indeed almost all engagements and affairs that
are entered upon by persons born on any of these days will receive some
sort of check or obstruction. The greater number of those persons born
on these days will be subject to weakness or sprains in the knees and
ankles, also diseases and hurts in the legs.




LIST OF UNLUCKY DAYS,


_Which to those persons (being females) born on them will generally
prove unfortunate._

  January, 5, 6, 13, 14, 20, and 21.
  February, 2, 3, 9, 10, 16, 17, 22, and 23.
  March, 1, 2, 8, 9, 16, 17, 28, and 29.
  April, 24 and 25.
  May, 1, 2, 9, 17, 22, 29, and 30.
  June, 5, 6, 12, 13, 18, and 19.
  July, 3 and 4.
  September, 9 and 16.
  October, 20 and 27.
  November, 9, 10, 21, 29, and 30.
  December, 6, 14, and 21.

We particularly advise all females born on these days to be extremely
cautious of placing their affections too hastily, as they will be
subject to _disappointments_ and _vexations_ in that respect; it will
be better for them (in those matters) to be guided by the advice of
their friends, rather than by their own feelings, they will be less
fortunate in placing their affections, than in any other action of
their lives, as many of these marriages will terminate in separations,
divorces, &c. Their courtships will end in elopements, seductions,
and other ways not necessary of explanation. Our readers must be well
aware that affairs of importance begun at inauspicious times, by those
who have been born at those periods when the stars shed their malign
influence, can seldom, if ever, lead to much good; it is, therefore,
that we endeavor to lay before them a correct statement drawn from
accurate astrological information, in order that by strict attention
and care, they may avoid falling into those perplexing labyrinths from
which nothing but that care and attention can save them. The list of
days we have above given, will be productive of hasty and clandestine
marriages--marriages under untoward circumstances, perplexing
attachments, and as a natural consequence, the displeasure of friends,
together with family broils, dissensions, and divisions. We now present
our readers with a




LIST OF DAYS USUALLY CONSIDERED FORTUNATE.


_With respect to Courtship, Marriage, and Love affairs in
general--Females that were born on the following days may expect_
_Courtships and prospects of Marriage, and which will have a happy
termination._

  January, 1, 2, 15, 26, 27, 28.
  February, 11, 21, 25, 26.
  March, 10, 24.
  April, 6, 15, 16, 20, 28.
  May, 3, 13, 18, 31.
  June, 10, 11, 15, 25, 22.
  July, 9, 14, 15, 28.
  August, 6, 7, 10, 11, 19, 20, 25.
  September, 4, 8, 9, 17, 18, 23.
  October, 3, 7, 16, 21, 22.
  November, 5, 14, 20.
  December, 14, 15, 19, 20, 22, 23, 25.

Although the greater number, or indeed nearly all the ladies that are
born on the days stated in the preceding list, will be likely to meet
with a _prospect_ of marriage, or become engaged in some love affair
of more than ordinary importance, yet it must not be expected that
the _result_ will be the same with all of them; with some they will
_terminate_ in _marriage_--with others in disappointment--and some of
them will be in danger of forming _attachments_ that may prove of a
somewhat _troublesome_ description. We shall, therefore, in order to
enable our readers to distinguish them, give a comprehensive and useful
list, showing which of them will be most likely to marry.

Those born within the limits of the succeeding List of Hours, on any
of the preceding days, will be the most likely to _marry_--or will,
at least, have _Courtships_ that will be likely to have a happy
termination.


LIST OF FORTUNATE HOURS.

January 2d. From 30 minutes past 10 till 15 minutes past 11 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes before 9 till 15 minutes before 11 at
night.

15th. From 30 minutes past 9 till 15 minutes past 10 in the morning;
and from 30 minutes past 7 till 15 minutes past 11 at night.

26th. From 30 minutes past 8 till 15 minutes past 9 in the morning; and
from 7 till 15 minutes past 10 at night.

February 11th and 12th. From 30 minutes past 7 till 15 minutes past 8,
in the morning; and from 15 minutes past 6 till 15 minutes before 9 at
night.

21st. From 7 till 15 minutes before 8 in the morning; and from 15
minutes past 5 till 15 minutes before 8 at night.

25th and 26th. From 15 minutes before 7 till 30 minutes past 7 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes before 5 till 30 minutes past 7 in the
evening.

March 10th. From 5 till 15 minutes before 6 in the morning; and from 4
in the afternoon till 15 minutes before 7 in the evening.

April 6th. From 15 minutes past 4 till 5 in the morning; and from 30
minutes past 2 till 15 minutes past 5 in the afternoon.

20th. From 30 minutes past 3 till 15 minutes past 4 in the morning; and
from 30 minutes past 1 till 15 minutes past 4 in the afternoon.

May 3d. From 15 minutes before 3 till 30 minutes past 3 in the morning;
and from 15 minutes before 1 till 30 minutes past 3 in the afternoon.

13th. From 2 till 15 minutes before 3 in the morning; and from 12 at
noon till 15 minutes before 3 in the afternoon.

18th. From 15 minutes before 1 till 30 minutes past 2 in the morning;
and from 15 minutes before 12 at noon till 30 minutes past 2 in the
afternoon.

31st. From 15 minutes before 1 till 30 minutes past 1 in the morning;
and from 15 minutes past 10 in the morning till 15 minutes before 1 in
the afternoon.

June 10th and 11th. From 15 minutes past 10 till 1 in the afternoon;
and from 12 at night till 1 in the morning.

15th. From 10 in the morning till 2 in the afternoon; and from 15
minutes before 12 at night till 15 minutes before 1 in the morning.

25th. From 15 minutes past 9 in the morning till 12 at noon; and from
11 to 12 at night.

29th. From 9 in the morning till 15 minutes before 12 at noon; and from
15 minutes before 11 till 15 minutes before 12 at night.

July 9th. From 15 minutes past 8 till 11 in the morning; and from 10
till 11 at night.

14th and 15th. From 8 till 11 in the morning; and from 10 till 11 at
night.

28th. From 7 till 10 in the morning; and from 9 till 10 at night.

August 6th and 7th. From 30 minutes past 6 till 15 minutes past 9 in
the morning; and from 15 minutes past 8 till 15 minutes past 9 at night.

10 and 11th. From 15 minutes past 6 till 9 in the morning; and from 8
till 9 in the evening.

19th and 20th. From 30 minutes past 5 till 30 minutes past 8 in the
morning; and from 30 minutes past 7 till 30 minutes past 8 in the
evening.

25th. From 15 minutes past 5 till 8 in the morning; and from 7 till 8
in the evening.

September 4th. From 15 minutes before 5 till 30 minutes past 7 in the
morning; and from 30 minutes past 6 till 30 minutes past 7 in the
evening.

8th and 9th. From 30 minutes past 4 till 15 minutes past 7 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes past 6 till 15 minutes past 7 in the
evening.

17th and 18th. From 5 till 15 minutes before 5 in the morning; and from
15 minutes before 6 till 15 minutes before 7 in the evening.

23d. From 30 minutes past 3 till 30 minutes past 5 in the morning; and
from 30 minutes past 5 till 30 minutes past 6 in the evening.

October 3d. From 3 till 15 minutes before 6 in the morning; and from 15
minutes past 4 till 15 minutes past 5 in the afternoon.

7th. From 15 minutes before 3 till 30 minutes past 5 in the morning;
and from 30 minutes past 4 till 30 minutes past 5 in the afternoon.

16th. From 2 till 5 in the morning; and from 4 till 5 in the afternoon.

21st and 22d. From 15 minutes before 2 till 30 minutes past 4 in the
morning; and from 30 minutes past 3 till 15 minutes past 4 in the
afternoon.

November 5th. From 1 till 15 minutes before 4 in the morning; and from
15 minutes before 3 till 15 minutes before 4 in the afternoon.

14th. From 15 minutes past 12 till 3 in the morning; and from 2 till 3
in the afternoon.

20th. From 15 minutes before 12 till 15 minutes past 2 in the morning;
and from 15 minutes past 1 till 2 in the afternoon.

December 14th and 15th. From 10 till 30 minutes past 12 in the morning;
and from 12 at noon till 15 minutes before 1 in the afternoon.

18th and 19th. From 15 minutes before 10 at night till 15 minutes past
5 in the morning; and from 30 minutes past 11 till 15 minutes past 12
at night.

January 3d. From 30 minutes past 10 till 15 minutes past 11 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes before 9 till 15 minutes past 11 at night.

12th and 13th. From 15 minutes past 9 till 10 in the morning; and from
15 minutes before 8 till 30 minutes past 10 at night.

18th. From 9 till 15 minutes before 10 in the morning; and from 15
minutes past 7 till 10 at night.

27th. From 9 till 15 minutes before 10 in the morning; and from 7 till
15 minutes before 10 at night.

February 1st. From 8 till 30 minutes past 8 in the morning; and from 6
till 30 minutes past 8 in the evening.

11th and 12th. From 15 minutes before 8 till 30 minutes past 8 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes before 6 till 30 minutes past 8 in the
evening.

17th. From 7 till 15 minutes before 8 in the morning; and from 15
minutes past 5 till 8 in the evening.

March 1st. From 30 minutes past 6 till 15 minutes past 7 in the
morning; and from 30 minutes past 4 till 15 minutes past 7 in the
evening.

16th and 17th. From 30 minutes past 5 till 15 minutes past 6 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes before 4 till 30 minutes past 6 in the
evening.

19th, 20th, 21st, 22d, 23d, 24th, and 25th. From 30 minutes past 5 till
30 minutes past 6 in the morning; and from 30 minutes past 3 till 15
minutes past 6 in the evening.

26th, 27th, 28th, 29th, and 30th. From 15 minutes past 5 till 15
minutes before 6 in the morning; and from 15 minutes past 3 till 6 in
the evening.

April 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th. From 30 minutes past 4 till
30 minutes past 5 in the morning; and from 30 minutes past 2 till 5 in
the afternoon.

10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th. From 15 minutes before 4 till 15
minutes before 5 in the morning; and from 2 till 30 minutes past 4 in
the afternoon.

19th, 20th, 21st, 22d, and 23d. From 30 minutes past 4 in the morning;
and from 15 minutes before 2 till 30 minutes past 4 in the afternoon.

25th, 26th, 27th, and 28th. From 3 till 4 in the morning; and from 15
minutes past 1 till 15 minutes before 4 in the afternoon.

May 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th. From 15 minutes past 2 till 15
minutes past 8 in the morning; and from 30 minutes past 12 at noon till
15 minutes past 3 in the afternoon.

9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th. From 2 till 3 in the morning; and from
15 minutes past 12 at noon till 3 in the afternoon.

16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, and 22d. From 15 minutes before 2
till 15 minutes before 3 in the morning; and from 12 at noon till 15
minutes before 3 in the afternoon.

23d, 24th, 25th, 26th, and 27th. From 15 minutes past 1 till 15 minutes
past 2 in the morning; and from 30 minutes past 11 in the forenoon till
15 minutes past 2 in the afternoon.

June 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th. From 15 minutes past 10 in the
morning till 1 in the afternoon; and from 15 minutes past 12 at night
till 15 minutes past 1 the next morning.

11th. From 15 minutes past 10 in the morning till 15 minutes before 1
in the afternoon; and from 12 at night till 1 the next morning.

20th. From 30 minutes past 9 in the morning till 12 at noon; and from
11 till 12 at night.

25th. From 15 minutes past 9 in the morning till 15 minutes past 12 at
noon; and from 11 till 12 at night.

July 5th. From 15 minutes before 8 till 15 minutes past 10 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes before 10 till 15 minutes before 11 at
night.

9th. From 15 minutes past 8 till 11 in the morning; and from 15 minutes
past 10 till 11 at night.

19th. From 30 minutes past 7 till 10 in the morning; and from 15
minutes past 9 till 15 minutes past 10 at night.

24th. From 7 till 15 minutes before 10 in the morning; and from 9 till
10 at night.

August 2d and 3d. From 30 minutes past 6 till 15 minutes before 9 in
the morning; and from 30 minutes past 8 till 30 minutes past 9 at night.

6th. From 15 minutes before 6 till 9 in the morning; and from 30
minutes past 7 till 30 minutes past 8 at night.

22d. From 15 minutes past 5 till 8 in the morning; and from 15 minutes
past 7 till 15 minutes past 8 at night.

September 1st. From 4 till 15 minutes before 7 in the morning; and 6
till 7 in the evening.

5th. From 30 minutes past 4 till 15 minutes before 7 in the morning;
and from 30 minutes past 6 till 30 minutes past 7 in the evening.

14th. From 15 minutes before 4 till 30 minutes past 6 in the morning;
and from 30 minutes past 5 till 30 minutes past 6 in the evening.

29th. From 15 minutes before 3 till 30 minutes past 5 in the morning;
and from 30 minutes past 4 till 30 minutes past 5 in the evening.

October 3d. From 3 till 15 minutes before 6 in the morning; and from 15
minutes before 5 till 15 minutes before 6 in the evening.

12th. From 15 minutes past 2 till 5 in the morning; and from 15 minutes
before 4 till 30 minutes past 4 in the afternoon.

18th and 19th. From 30 minutes past 1 till 4 in the morning; and from
15 minutes before 3 till 30 minutes past 4 in the afternoon.

November 10th and 11th. From 30 minutes past 12 at night till 15
minutes past 3 in the morning; and from 30 minutes past 1 till 30
minutes past 2 in the afternoon.

15th and 16th. From 12 at night till 15 minutes before 3 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes past 1 till 2 in the afternoon.

29th and 30th. From 15 minutes past 11 at night till 2 in the morning;
and from 1 till 15 minutes before 2 in the afternoon.

December 8th and 9th. From 15 minutes past 10 at night till 1 in the
morning; and from 30 minutes past 12 at noon till 30 minutes past 1 in
the afternoon.

14th, 15th and 16th. From 10 at night till 15 minutes before 1 in the
morning; and from 15 minutes before 12 to 30 minutes past 12 at noon.

23d and 24th. From 15 minutes past 11 till 12 at noon; and from 15
minutes past 9 till 12 at night.

28th. From 15 minutes past 10 till 11 in the morning; and from 9 till
15 minutes before 12 at night.

       *       *       *       *       *

We do not presume to assert that every lady born on the last-mentioned
times will be exempt from all descriptions of trouble during the whole
of their lives, but that they will never (in spite of whatever may
happen to befall them) sink below mediocrity. Even servants and those
born of poor parents will possess some superior qualities, get into
good company, be much noticed by their superiors, and will, in spite of
any intervening difficulties, establish themselves in the world, and
rise much above their sphere of birth.

It has often been recorded, and though a singular observation,
experience has shown it to be a true one, that some event of importance
is sure to happen to a woman in her thirty-first year, whether single
or married; it may prove for her good, or it may be some great evil
or temptation; therefore we advise her to be cautious and circumspect
in all her actions. If she is a maiden or widow, it is probable she
will marry this year. If a wife that she will lose her children or her
husband:--She will either receive riches or travel into a foreign land:
at all events, some circumstance or other will take place during this
remarkable year of her life, that will have great effect on her future
fortunes and existence.

The like is applicable to men in their forty-second year, of which so
many instances have been proved that there is not a doubt of its truth:
Observe always to take a lease for an odd number of years; even are not
prosperous. The three first days of the moon are the best for signing
papers, and the first five days as well as the twenty-fourth for any
fresh undertaking. But we cannot but allow that a great deal depends on
our own industry and perseverance, and by strictly discharging our duty
to God and man, we may often overcome the malign influence of a bad
planet, or a day marked as unlucky in the book of fate.




ST. AGNES’ DAY


(_Charm to know who your husband shall be._)

Falls on the 21st of January: you must prepare yourself by a
twenty-four hours’ fast, touching nothing but pure spring water,
beginning at midnight on the 20th, to the same again on the 21st; then
go to bed, and mind you sleep by yourself, and do not mention what you
are trying to any one, or it will break the spell; go to rest on your
left side, and repeat these lines three times:

  St. Agnes, be a friend to me,
  In the gift I ask of thee;
  Let me this night my husband see--

and you will dream of your future spouse: if you see more than one in
your dream, you will wed two or three times, but if you sleep and dream
not, you will never marry.




NAPOLEON’S ORACULUM; OR, BOOK OF FATE.


_The Oraculum is gifted with every requisite variety of response to the
following questions_:

1. Shall I obtain my wish?

2. Shall I have success in my undertakings?

3. Shall I gain or lose in my cause?

4. Shall I have to live in foreign parts?

5. Will the stranger return?

6. Shall I recover my property?

7. Will my friend be true?

8. Shall I have to travel?

9. Does the person love and regard me?

10. Will the marriage be prosperous?

11. What sort of a wife, or husband, shall I have?

12. Will she have a son or daughter?

13. Will the patient recover?

14. Will the prisoner be released?

15. Shall I be lucky or unlucky?

16. What does my dream signify?


HOW TO WORK THE ORACULUM.

Make marks in four lines, one under another, in the following manner,
making more or less in each line, according to your fancy:

  * * * * * * * * *

  * * * * * * * * * *

  * * * * * * * * * * *

  * * * * * * * * * * * *

Then reckon the number of marks in each line, and, if it be _odd_, mark
down one dot; if _even_, two dots. If there be more than nine marks,
reckon the surplus ones over that number only, viz.:

  The number of marks in the first line of the foregoing are _odd_;
  therefore make one mark, thus                      *

  In the second, _even_, so make two, thus      * *

  In the third, _odd_ again, make one mark only *

  In the fourth, _even_ again, two marks        * *


TO OBTAIN THE ANSWER.

You must refer to THE ORACULUM, at the top of which you will find a row
of dots similar to those you have produced, and a column of figures
corresponding with those prefixed to the questions; guide your eye down
the column at the top of which you find the dots resembling your own,
till you come to the letter on a line with the number of the question
you are trying, then refer to the page having that letter at the top,
and, on a line with the dots which are similar to your own, you will
find your _answer_.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following are unlucky days, on which none of the questions should
be worked, or any enterprise undertaken: Jan. 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, 20, 22;
Feb. 6, 17, 28; March 24, 26; April 10, 27, 28; May 7, 8; June 27; July
17, 21; Aug. 20, 22; Sept. 5, 30; Oct 6; Nov. 3, 29; Dec. 6, 10, 15.

       *       *       *       *       *

⁂ It is not right to try a question twice in one day.




ORACULUM.


  ===================================================================
                                                 *  ** *  ** ** ** **
                                                 *  *  ** *  ** ** *
  Numb.        QUESTIONS.                        *  ** *  *  ** *  *
                                                 *  *  *  ** *  ** *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
   1 Shall I obtain my wish?                     A  B  C  D  E  F  G
   2 Shall I have success in my undertakings?    B  C  D  E  F  G  H
   3 Shall I gain or lose in my cause?           C  D  E  F  G  H  I
   4 Shall I have to live in foreign parts?      D  E  F  G  H  I  K
   5 Will the stranger return from abroad?       E  F  G  H  I  K  L
   6 Shall I recover my property stolen?         F  G  H  I  K  L  M
   7 Will my friend be true in his dealings?     G  H  I  K  L  M  N
   8 Shall I have to travel?                     H  I  K  L  M  N  O
   9 Does the person love and regard me?         I  K  L  M  N  O  P
  10 Will the marriage be prosperous?            K  L  M  N  O  P  Q
  11 What sort of wife or husb. shall I have?    L  M  N  O  P  Q  A
  12 Will she have a son or a daughter?          M  N  O  P  Q  A  B
  13 Will the patient recover from his illness?  N  O  P  Q  A  B  C
  14 Will the prisoner be released?              O  P  Q  A  B  C  D
  15 Shall I be lucky or unlucky this day?       P  Q  A  B  C  D  E
  16 What does my dream signify?                 Q  A  B  C  D  E  F
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  =================================
   ** *  *  ** *  *  *  *  ** Numb.
   ** *  *  *  ** ** *  ** **
   *  ** *  ** ** ** ** *  **
   *  ** ** ** ** *  *  ** **
  ---------------------------------
   H  I  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q   1
   I  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  A   2
   K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  A  B   3
   L  M  N  O  P  Q  A  B  C   4
   M  N  O  P  Q  A  B  C  D   5
   N  O  P  Q  A  B  C  D  E   6
   O  P  Q  A  B  C  D  E  F   7
   P  Q  A  B  C  D  E  F  G   8
   Q  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H   9
   A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  10
   B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  K  11
   C  D  E  F  G  H  I  K  L  12
   D  E  F  G  H  I  K  L  M  13
   E  F  G  H  I  K  L  M  N  14
   F  G  H  I  K  L  M  N  O  15
   G  H  I  K  L  M  N  O  P  16
  ---------------------------------

  ===================================================================
  A
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  What you wish for, you will shortly OBTAIN.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Signifies trouble and sorrow.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Be very cautious what you do THIS day, lest trouble
  ** befall you.
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The prisoner DIES, and is regretted by his friends.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Life will be spared THIS time, to prepare for death.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A very handsome daughter, but a PAINFUL one.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will have a virtuous woman or man, for your wife or husband.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** If you marry this person, you will have enemies where you little
  ** expect.
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You had better decline THIS love, for it is neither
  *  constant nor true.
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  DECLINE your travels, for they will not be to your
  *  advantage.
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** There is a true and sincere friendship between you BOTH.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will NOT recover the stolen property.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The stranger WILL, with joy, soon return.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will NOT remove from where you are at present.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Providence WILL support you in a good cause.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You are NOT lucky.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  B
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The luck that is ordained for you will be coveted by others.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Whatever your desires are, for the present decline them.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Signifies a favor or kindness from some person.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** There ARE enemies who would defraud and render you unhappy.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** With great difficulty he will obtain pardon or release again.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The patient should be prepared to LEAVE this world.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** She will have a SON, who will be learned and wise.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A RICH partner is ordained for you.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  By THIS marriage you will have great luck and prosperity.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  THIS love comes from an upright and sincere heart.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A higher Power WILL surely travel with you, and bless you.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Beware of friends who are false and deceitful.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You WILL recover your property--unexpectedly.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Love prevents his return home at present.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your stay is NOT here; be therefore prepared for a change.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will have NO GAIN; therefore be wise and careful.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  C
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  With the blessing of God, you WILL have great gain.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Very unlucky indeed--pray for assistance.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  If your desires are NOT extravagant, they will be granted.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Signifies peace and plenty between friends.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Be well prepared THIS day, or you may meet with trouble.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The prisoner WILL find it difficult to obtain his pardon
  ** or release.
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The patient WILL YET enjoy health and prosperity.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** She WILL have a daughter, and will require attention.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The person has NOT a great fortune, but is in middling
  *  circumstances.
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Decline THIS marriage, or else you may be sorry.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Decline a courtship which MAY be your destruction.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your travels are IN VAIN; you had better stay at home.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You MAY depend on a true and sincere friendship.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You must NOT expect to regain that which you have lost.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  SICKNESS prevents the traveler from seeing you.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** It WILL be your fate to stay where you now are.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  D
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You WILL obtain a great fortune in another country.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** By venturing freely, you WILL certainly gain doubly.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  A higher Power WILL change your misfortune into success
  ** and happiness.
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Alter your intentions, or else you MAY meet poverty and
  *  distress.
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Signifies you have many impediments in accomplishing your
  ** pursuits.
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Whatever may possess your inclinations this day, abandon them.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The prisoner WILL get free again this time.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The patient’s illness WILL be lingering and doubtful.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  She will have a dutiful and handsome son.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The person will be LOW in circumstances, but honest-hearted.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A marriage which WILL ADD to your welfare and prosperity.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You love a person who does not speak well of you.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your travels WILL be prosperous, if guided by prudence.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  He means NOT what he says, for his heart is false.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  With some trouble and expense, you may regain your property.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You must NOT expect to see the stranger again.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  E

  *  The stranger WILL not return as soon as you expect.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Remain among your friends, and you will do well.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will hereafter GAIN what you seek.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You have NO LUCK--pray, and strive honestly.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will obtain your wishes by means of a friend.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Signifies you have enemies who will endeavor to ruin you.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Beware--an enemy is endeavoring to bring you to strife and
  *  misfortune.
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The prisoner’s sorrow and anxiety are great, and his release
  ** uncertain.
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The patient WILL soon recover--there is no danger.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  She will have a daughter, who will be honored and respected.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Your partner WILL be fond of liquor, and will debase himself
  *  thereby.
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  This marriage will bring you to poverty, be therefore discreet.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Their love is false to you, and true to others.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  DECLINE your travels for the present, for they will be
  *  dangerous.
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  THIS person is serious and true, and deserves to be
  ** respected.
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will not recover the property you have lost.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  F
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  By persevering you WILL recover your property again.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** It is out of the stranger’s power to return.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will GAIN, and be successful in foreign parts.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A great fortune is ordained for you; wait patiently.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** There is great hindrance to your success at present.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Your wishes are in VAIN at present.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Signifies there are sorrow and danger before you.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** THIS day is unlucky; therefore alter your intention.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The prisoner will be restored to liberty and freedom.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The patient’s recovery is doubtful.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** She will have a fine BOY.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  A worthy person, and a fine fortune.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your intentions would destroy your rest and peace.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  THIS love is true and constant; forsake it not.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  PROCEED on your journey, and you will not have cause
  ** to repent it.
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** If you trust THIS friend, you may have cause for sorrow.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  G
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  This friend exceeds all others in every respect.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You must bear your loss with fortitude.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The stranger will return unexpectedly.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Remain at HOME with your friends, and you will escape
  *  misfortunes.
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will meet no GAIN in your pursuits.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Heaven will bestow its blessings on you.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** No.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Signifies that you will shortly be out of the POWER of your
  ** enemies.
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  ILL-LUCK awaits you--it will be difficult for you to
  *  escape it.
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The prisoner will be RELEASED by death only.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** By the blessing of God, the patient WILL recover.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  A daughter, but of a very sickly constitution.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will get an honest, young, and handsome partner.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Decline this marriage, else it may be to your sorrow.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Avoid this love.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Prepare for a short journey; you will be recalled by unexpected
  ** events.
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  H
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Commence your travels, and they will go on as you could wish.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Your pretended friend hates you secretly.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your hopes to recover your property are vain.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A certain affair prevents the stranger’s return immediately.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Your fortune you will find in abundance abroad.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Decline the pursuit, and you will do well.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Your expectations are vain--you will not succeed.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will obtain what you wish for.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Signifies that on this day your fortune will change for
  *  the better.
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Cheer up your spirits, your luck is at hand.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** After LONG imprisonment, he will be released.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The patient will be relieved from sickness.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  She will have a healthy SON.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will be married to your equal in a short time.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  If you wish to be happy, do not marry this person.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** This love is from the heart, and will continue until death.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  I
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The love is great, but will cause great jealousy.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** It will be in vain for you to travel.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your friend will be as sincere as you could wish him to be.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will recover the stolen property through a cunning person.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The traveler will soon return with joy.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will not be prosperous or fortunate in foreign parts.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Place your trust in God, who is the disposer of happiness.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Your fortune will shortly be changed into misfortune.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will succeed as you desire.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Signifies that the misfortune which threatens will be prevented.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Beware of your enemies, who seek to do you harm.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  After a short time, your anxiety for the prisoner will cease.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  God will give the patient health and strength again.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  She will have a very fine daughter.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will marry a person with whom you will have little comfort.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The marriage will not answer your expectations.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  K
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  After much misfortune, you will be comfortable and happy.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A sincere love from an upright heart.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will be prosperous in your journey.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Do not RELY on the friendship of this person.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The property is lost for EVER; but the thief will be
  ** punished.
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The traveler will be absent some considerable time.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will meet luck and happiness in a foreign country.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will not have any success for the present.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will succeed in your undertaking.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Change your intentions, and you will do well.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Signifies that there are rogues at hand.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Be reconciled, your circumstances will shortly mend.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The prisoner will be released.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The patient will depart this life.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  She will have a son.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** It will be difficult for you to get a partner.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  L
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will get a very handsome person for your partner.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Various misfortunes will attend this marriage.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  This love is whimsical and changeable.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will be unlucky in your travels.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** This person’s love is just and true. You may rely on it.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will lose, but the thief will suffer most.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The stranger will soon return with plenty.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** If you remain at home, you will have success.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your gain will be trivial.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will meet sorrow and trouble.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will succeed according to your wishes.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Signifies that you will get money.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  In spite of enemies, you will do well.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The prisoner will pass many days in confinement.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The patient will recover.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** She will have a daughter.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  M
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  She will have a son, who will gain wealth and honor.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will get a partner with great undertakings and much money.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The marriage will be prosperous.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** She, or He, wishes to be yours this moment.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Your journey will prove to your advantage.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Place no great trust in that person.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will find your property at a certain time.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The traveler’s return is rendered doubtful by his conduct.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will succeed as you desire in foreign parts.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Expect no gain; it will be in vain.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will have more LUCK than you expect.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Whatever your desires are, you will speedily obtain them.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Signifies you will be asked to a wedding.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will have no occasion to complain of ill-luck.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Someone will pity and release the prisoner.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The patient’s recovery is unlikely.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  N
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The patient will recover, but his days are short.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** She will have a daughter.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will marry into a very respectable family.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** By this marriage you will gain nothing.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Await the time and you will find the love great.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Venture not from home.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** This person is a sincere friend.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will never recover the theft.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The stranger will return, but not quickly.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  When abroad, keep from evil women or they will do you harm.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will soon gain what you little expect.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will have great success.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Rejoice ever at that which is ordained for you.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Signifies that sorrow will depart, and joy will return.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your luck is in blossom; it will soon be at hand.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Death may end the imprisonment.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  O
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The prisoner will be released with joy.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The patient’s recovery is doubtful.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  She will have a son, who will live to a great age.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will get a virtuous partner.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Delay not this marriage--you will meet much happiness.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** None loves you better in this world.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You may proceed with confidence.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Not a friend, but a secret enemy.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will soon recover what is stolen.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The stranger will not return again.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A foreign woman will greatly enhance your fortune.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will be cheated out of your gain.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your misfortunes will vanish and you will be happy.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Your hope is in vain--fortune shuns you at present.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  That you will soon hear agreeable news.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** There are misfortunes lurking about you.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  P
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  This day brings you an increase of happiness.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The prisoner will quit the power of his enemies.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The patient will recover and live long.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** She will have two daughters.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A rich young person will be your partner.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Hasten your marriage--it will bring you much happiness.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The person loves you sincerely.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** You will not prosper from home.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  This friend is more valuable than gold.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will NEVER receive your goods.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** He is dangerously ill, and cannot yet return.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Depend upon your own industry, and remain at home.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Be joyful, for future prosperity is ordained for you.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Depend not too much on your good luck.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  What you wish will be granted to you.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** That you should be very careful this day, lest any accident
  ** befall you.
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

  ===================================================================
  Q
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Signifies much joy and happiness between friends.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** This day is not very lucky, but rather the reverse.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  He will yet come to honor, although he now suffers.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Recovery is doubtful; therefore be prepared for the worst.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** She will have a son who will prove forward.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** A rich partner, but a bad temper.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** By wedding this person you insure your happiness.
  *
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** The person has great love for you, but wishes to conceal it.
  **
  *
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You may proceed on your journey without fear.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  Trust him not; he is inconstant and deceitful.
  *
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** In a very singular manner you will recover your property.
  *
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  The stranger will return very soon.
  **
  **
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will dwell abroad in comfort and happiness.
  **
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  If you will deal fairly you will surely prosper.
  *
  **
  *
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  *  You will yet live in splendor and plenty.
  **
  *
  **
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  ** Make yourself contented with your PRESENT fortune.
  **
  **
  **
  ===================================================================

       *       *       *       *       *

USEFUL AND INSTRUCTIVE BOOKS.

HOW TO DO THE BLACK ART--Containing a complete description of the
mysteries of Magic and Sleight-of-Hand, together with many wonderful
experiments. By A. Anderson. Illustrated. Price 10 cents. Address Frank
Tousey, publisher, N. Y.

HOW TO BE A DETECTIVE--By Old King Brady, the world known detective. In
which he lays down some valuable and sensible rules for beginners, and
also relates some adventures and experiences of well-known detectives.
Price 10 cents. For sale by all newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or sent to your address, post-paid, on receipt of price.
Address Frank Tousey, publisher, New York.

HOW TO BECOME A CONJURER--Containing tricks with Dominoes, Dice, Cups
and Balls, Hats, etc. Embracing 36 illustrations. By A. Anderson. Price
10 cents. Address Frank Tousey, publisher, New York.

HOW TO DO MECHANICAL TRICKS--Containing complete instructions for
performing over sixty Mechanical Tricks. By A. Anderson. Fully
illustrated. Price 10 cents. For sale by all newsdealers, or we will
send it by mail, postage free, upon receipt of price. Address Frank
Tousey, publisher, N. Y.

HOW TO DO SIXTY TRICKS WITH CARDS--Embracing all of the latest and most
deceptive card tricks with illustrations. By A. Anderson. Price 10
cents. For sale by all newsdealers, or we will send it to you by mail,
postage free, upon receipt of price. Address Frank Tousey, publisher,
N. Y.

HOW TO MAKE ELECTRICAL MACHINES--Containing full directions for making
electrical machines, induction coils, dynamos, and many novel toys to
be worked by electricity. By R. A. R. Bennett. Fully illustrated. Price
10 cents. For sale by all newsdealers in the United States and Canada,
or will be sent to your address, post-paid, on receipt of price.
Address Frank Tousey, publisher, New York.

HOW TO BECOME A BOWLER--A complete manual of bowling. Containing full
instructions for playing all the standard American and German games,
together with rules and systems of sporting in use by the principal
bowling clubs in the United States. By Bartholomew Batterson. Price 10
cents. For sale by all newsdealers in the United States and Canada, or
sent to your address, postage free, on receipt of the price. Address
Frank Tousey, publisher, New York.

HOW TO KEEP AND MANAGE PETS--Giving complete information as to the
manner and method of raising, keeping, taming, breeding, and managing
all kinds of pets; also giving full instructions for making cages,
etc. Fully explained by 28 illustrations, making it the most complete
book of the kind ever published. Price 10 cents. Address Frank Tousey,
publisher, New York.

HOW TO DO ELECTRICAL TRICKS.--Containing a large collection of
instructive and highly amusing electrical tricks, together with
illustrations. By A. Anderson. Price 10 cents. For sale by all
newsdealers, or sent, post-paid, upon receipt of the price. Address
Frank Tousey, publisher, New York.

HOW TO WRITE LETTERS--A wonderful little book, telling you how to write
to your sweetheart, your father, mother, sister, brother, employer;
and, in fact everybody and anybody you wish to write to. Every young
man and every young lady in the land should have this book. It is for
sale by all newsdealers. Price 10 cents, or sent from this office on
receipt of price. Address Frank Tousey, publisher, New York.

HOW TO DO PUZZLES--Containing over 300 interesting puzzles and
conundrums with key to same. A complete book. Fully illustrated. By A.
Anderson. Price 10 cents. For sale by all newsdealers, or sent, post
paid, upon receipt of the price. Address Frank Tousey, Publisher, New
York.

HOW TO DO 40 TRICKS WITH CARDS--Containing deceptive Card Tricks
as performed by leading conjurers and magicians. Arranged for home
amusement. Fully illustrated. Price 10 cents. Address Frank Tousey,
publisher, New York.

HOW TO MAKE A MAGIC LANTERN--Containing a description of the lantern,
together with its history and invention. Also full directions for its
use and for painting slides. Handsomely illustrated, by John Allen.
Price 10 cents. For sale by all newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent to your address, post-paid, on receipt of
price. Address Frank Tousey, publisher, New York.

HOW TO BECOME AN ACTOR--Containing complete instructions how to make up
for various characters on the stage; together with the duties of the
Stage Manager, Prompter, Scenic Artist and Property Man. By a prominent
Stage Manager. Price 10 cents. Address Frank Tousey, publisher, N. Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR TEN CENT HAND BOOKS

USEFUL, INSTRUCTIVE AND AMUSING.

Containing valuable information on almost every subject, such as
Writing, Speaking, Dancing, Cooking; also Rules of Etiquette, The Art
of Ventriloquism, Gymnastic Exercises, and The Science of Self-Defense,
etc., etc.

  1 Napoleon’s Oraculum and Dream Book
  2 How to Do Tricks
  3 How to Flirt
  4 How to Dance
  5 How to Make Love
  6 How to Become an Athlete
  7 How to Keep Birds
  8 How to Become a Scientist
  9 How to Become a Ventriloquist
  10 How to Box
  11 How to Write Love Letters
  12 How to Write Letters to Ladies
  13 How to Do It; or, Book of Etiquette
  14 How to Make Candy
  17 How to Dress
  18 How to Become Beautiful
  20 How to Entertain an Evening Party
  21 How to Hunt and Fish
  22 How to Do Second Sight
  23 How to Explain Dreams
  24 How to Write Letters to Gentlemen
  25 How to Become a Gymnast
  26 How to Row, Sail and Build a Boat
  27 How to Recite and Book of Recitations
  28 How to Tell Fortunes
  29 How to Become an Inventor
  30 How to Cook
  31 How to Become a Speaker
  33 How to Behave
  34 How to Fence
  35 How to Play Games
  36 How to Solve Conundrums
  37 How to Keep House
  38 How to Become Your Own Doctor
  39 How to Raise Dogs, Poultry, Pigeons and Rabbits
  40 How to Make and Set Traps
  41 The Boys of New York End Men’s Joke Book
  42 The Boys of New York Stump-Speaker
  43 How to Become a Magician
  44 How to Write in an Album
  45 The Boys of New York Minstrel Guide and Joke Book
  46 How to Make and Use Electricity
  48 How to Build & Sail Canoes
  49 How to Debate
  50 How to Stuff Birds & Animals
  51 How to Do Tricks with Cards
  52 How to Play Cards
  53 How to Write Letters
  54 How to Keep & Manage Pets
  55 How to Collect Stamps & Coins
  56 How to Become an Engineer
  58 How to Become a Detective
  59 How to Make a Magic Lantern
  60 How to Become a Photographer
  64 How to Make Electrical Machines
  65 Muldoon’s Jokes
  66 How to Do Puzzles
  67 How to Do Electrical Tricks
  68 How to Do Chemical Tricks
  69 How to Do Sleight of Hand
  70 How to Make Magic Toys
  71 How to Do Mechanical Tricks
  72 How to Do Sixty Tricks with Cards
  73 How to Do Tricks with Numbers
  74 How to Write Letters Correctly
  75 How to Become a Conjurer
  76 How to Tell Fortunes by the Hand
  77 How to Do Forty Tricks with Cards
  78 How to Do the Black Art
  79 How to Become an Actor
  80 Gus Williams’ Joke Book
  82 How to Do Palmistry
  83 How to Hypnotize
  84 How to Become an Author

All the above books are for sale by newsdealers throughout the United
States and Canada, or they will be sent, post-paid, to your address, on
receipt of 10c. each.

  FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher,
  168 West 23d Street, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

The author of this book is listed in other sources as Aaron A. Warford.

Punctuation has been made consistent.

Variations in spelling and hyphenation were retained as they appear in
the original publication, except that obvious typographical errors have
been corrected.

The following changes were made:

p. 36: ives changed to fives (three fives, a)

pp. 36-37: The section entitled NAPOLEON’S ORACULUM; OR, BOOK OF FATE
was moved from just preceding the first section entitled LIST OF
UNLUCKY DAYS to just preceding the section entitled ORACULUM.

p. 39: cautions changed to cautious (extremely cautious of)

p. 46: ORACULUM table split into two parts to fit margins.





End of Project Gutenberg's How to Tell Fortunes, by Aaron A. Warford

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOW TO TELL FORTUNES ***

***** This file should be named 52741-0.txt or 52741-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/2/7/4/52741/

Produced by Craig Kirkwood, Demian Katz and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Images
courtesy of the Digital Library@Villanova University
(http://digital.library.villanova.edu/))

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

